     The initial impact of the report occurred in the period 2002-2005 in the       UK.
However, its plausibility and substance &#8212; as evidence of which we       quote the initial response to the report below &#8212; has led to it having a       continuing international impact with important developments within the REF       period with a substantial range of its expected beneficiaries, namely       legislatures, the courts and policy makers in countries where genetic       patenting is a substantial issue, such as the USA and the EU.
When it was published in 2002 this report was widely regarded as a major       development in the discussion of the contentious issue of `gene patents'.
Maggie Ponder, chair of the Genetic Interest Group, said: "Families and       individuals affected by genetic disorders wish to see the speediest       development of new understanding and techniques.
They also want to see the       affordable application of this knowledge and technology.
In the view of       the Genetic Interest Group, the Nuffield Council have struck the right       balance between what can be competing pressures in both research and       applications."
Dr Robin Lovell-Badge, Head of Development Genetics at the       National Institute for Medical Research, agreed "I think this report will       be very useful.
I agree that in most cases a simple DNA sequence should       not be patentable.
But it is not always so obvious that a particular DNA       sequence causes a disease, and a considerable investment of time and       resources may be involved in its discovery.
In these cases it seems more       reasonable that a company should be able to protect its investment and       discovery with a patent."
For more detailed responses at the time of       publication in 2002 from the full range of potential beneficiaries, see http://www.sciencemediacentre.org/scientists-comment-on-dna-ethics-report-2/     Lawyers in particular welcomed the report's approach of using well       established criteria for the validity of patents to criticise some DNA       patents as unwarranted.
While a wholesale denunciation of the morality of       gene patents might have attracted popular support, it would not have had       much practical impact.
Lawyers have also taken up the report's distinction       between patents based only on diagnostic tests and those based on new       methods of producing therapeutic proteins.
In the USA much recent interest       in this issue has been aroused by the case started in 2009 by the American       Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) to challenge the patents on breast cancer       genes granted to the Myriad Corporation on the basis of their use in       diagnostic tests for susceptibility to breast cancer.
In 2010 Justice       Sweet upheld the ACLU case against Myriad in the New York Federal District       court on grounds similar to those articulated in the Nuffield Report.
Myriad's appeal against this decision was largely upheld in the Federal       Circuit Court of Appeals, but the case was sent to the US Supreme Court       which reached a complex judgment in June 2013, striking down Myriad's       patents on naturally occurring DNA sequences, but allowing the       patentability of complementary DNA sequences which lack naturally       occurring introns.
In the present context, what is significant about the       debates surrounding this case is the way in which the Nuffield report is       still cited in discussions of the issues as an authoritative contribution       and the fact that the court's emphasis on the significance of the       invention/discovery test largely replicates that in the Nuffield report.
Our case is that the evidence of reception of the report, continued       reference to it in other contexts, and structural similarity of the       reasoning, makes it plausible that this is a further evidence of its       impact.
As further evidence of the report's crossing of the Atlantic to influence       the legal debate there, and as a substantial impact on the legislature in       the US in its own right, it is notable that the report also turns up in a       US Congressional report and National Institutes of Health (NIH) briefings       in the period.
Further, in their 2009 submission to the Senate Standing       Committee on Community Affairs Inquiry into Genes, the Australian Law       Reform Commission (ALRC) referred to their report on Genes and Ingenuity:       Gene Patenting and Human Health (ALRC 99, 2004).
This report describes the       approach to the test for inventiveness recommended in the Nuffield report       (see 6.83-7 of the ALRC report) and in its conclusion it affirmed the       Nuffield position (see 6.95-7).
A recent briefing note by the UK       Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology on this issue (taking note       of the legal debates in the USA) also cites the Nuffield report in 2012.
