     The impact noted in this case study is on the way that philosophy of       literature is being taught and conceived.
Analytic philosophers have dealt       piecemeal with loosely related issues but these have seemed marginal in       literary circles and have never been consolidated into a coherent       `philosophy of literature' grounded in analytical methods.
The anthology       provides a package of material that would be appropriate to an integrated       course on analytic approaches to both art and literature.
Lamarque's       monograph goes further, advancing a highly distinctive analytic treatment       of the philosophy of literature, representing a radical departure; which       has at its core the idea of literature as an `institution' governed by       conventions and concepts with deep historical roots, although seldom given       explicit analysis, helping to explain the underlying values in both the       creation and reception of literary works.
Furthermore, given the supremacy       of analytic philosophy in Anglophone Philosophy Departments, this       refocusing has also helped to bring aesthetics and the philosophy of       literature into the mainstream of philosophy.
The impact of the books is, thus, revealed, first, by the spread of       straight philosophy of literature courses now available in Higher       Education Institutions that use these books as preliminary reading or       reading around which a course is structured and, second, the recognition       of the significance of these books, or their use, in courses in related       disciplines, or by leading figures in these disciplines.
In the UK, Philosophy Departments at universities including Bristol,       Cambridge, Edinburgh, Heythrop, Lancaster, Leeds, Sheffield, St Andrews,       Warwick, and others, use one or both of the cited books as texts.
Outside       the UK, Universities in Continental Europe (notably Germany, France,       Spain, Portugal, Italy, Scandinavia), Australia, New Zealand, USA, Canada,       and South Africa (see below) use these texts.
Prof. Dr. Tilmann K&#246;ppe at       the University of Goettingen, Germany writes: "I have had the opportunity       to use your excellent books for teaching purposes in literary studies       several times.
Most recently, I have taught a course on "Problems of       Literary Theory" (fall semester 2011/2012)".
The monograph is also used for courses addressed at the general public,       for example, the Department of Continuing Education, Oxford, suggested       reading, also link to Lamarque's website.
And it is being translated into       Persian and Chinese despite only having been available since 2008.
Currently standard approaches to literature&#8212;at least those recognized by       theorists and critics&#8212; have been based on the work of Continental       philosophers (such as Derrida, Levinas, Foucault, Kristeva and Irigerary).
Evidence that Lamarque's approach is making its mark even on literary       theory comes from Terry Eagleton's book The Event of Literature (2012),       which is a close engagement with analytical philosophy of literature, and       with Lamarque's book in particular.
Eagleton is one of the most prominent       literary theorists in the world and has up to now shown virtually no       interest in the work of analytic philosophers in this field.
However, in       this new book, his approach has radically changed.
He writes: "the rigour       and technical expertise of the best philosophy of literature contrasts       favourably with the intellectual looseness of some literary theory, and       has addressed questions ... left mostly unexamined by those in the other       camp" (p.ix).
There are references throughout the book to Lamarque's work:       e.g.
pp.21-23, 47-56, 63-66, 80-1, etc.
as well as his work with Olsen,       more so than to any other analytic philosophers.
Thus, the significance of the impact of these two books can be summed up       as follows: (a) 30 years ago the term `philosophy of literature' was       barely used, and unified analytical approaches to the topics virtually       non-existent, either in aesthetics or literary theory, but now there are       courses on this aspect of literary study in HE institutions across the       world (see below); (b) this branch of aesthetics, informed by analytical       philosophy, has acquired an identity and a focus largely through the work       of Lamarque; (c) this is having a growing influence on the way that the       theory of literature is conceived, taught and disseminated; (d) being       grounded in analytic philosophy, which is mainstream philosophy at least       across the English-speaking world, this approach to the theory of       literature shows its strong intellectual credentials; (e) it not only       introduces rigour into the articulation of the problems, but it offers       genuine insight and illumination into the very foundations of literary       study; (f) it gives students across the humanities and even in the social       sciences a radically new perspective through which to think about the arts       and literature in particular; and (g), above all, it establishes deep       intellectual links between the disciplines of literary criticism and       philosophy, as well as showing where inter-disciplinary boundaries are       justifiable and where they are porous or unfounded.
