     Non-Invasive Prenatal testing/diagnosis (NIPT/NIPD)       Mass elimination of risky amniocentesis and chorionic vilus sampling       during the clinical management of HDFN has been achieved.
There is an at       least 1% spontaneous miscarriage rate during such procedures, and       amniocentesis can exacerbate alloimmunisation in cases of HDFN.
NIPD is       required for Aneuploidy and when achieved is one of the greatest impacts       in obstetric management over the past fifty years.
Avent has contributed       significantly to this goal, in particular the management of HDFN, and       provided here is evidence supporting this contribution.
Work by Avent since the late 1990s has included the first ever       introduction of a routine NIPD service for the RhD blood group, initially       for the clinical management of RhD HDFN in 2001 (Finning et al 4 above).
This work was then extended by the EC-FP6 network of excellence, Special       Non-invasive Fetal and Neonatal Evaluation (SAFE), funded between 2004 -       2009 (1).
Avent was the chair of the steering committee of this network       which was funded in excess of &#8364;12M.
Avent, through the work of the SAFE       network, and more recently following moving to Plymouth University in       April 2009 (funded by the NIHR and EC FP7) has standardised approaches to       fetal RhD typing and fetal sexing and has held wet workshops (led by       Plymouth) involving UK and EC- based laboratories.
This approach to       standardisation has resulted in the use of RhD non-invasive testing for       all RhD negative pregnant mothers in the Netherlands (2009) and Denmark       (2011) with others imminently launching such a service.
This approach has       been adopted in order to avoid exposure of pregnant mothers to a human       product and to conserve stocks of prophylactic anti-D which is in short       supply.
Avent's lab, in collaboration with the RAPID project (2009-2014)       (funded by the NIHR, www.rapid.nhs.net)       and EuroGentest (www.eurogentest.org       (2010-2013)), is driving the widespread implementation of next generation       sequencing techniques for routine implementation of NIPD, especially for       Down syndrome.
The NGS-based approaches for Down syndrome typing is now in       clinical use.
Thus despite the major funding block for Avent's NIPD work       (the SAFE network) concluding in 2009, just within the current REF period,       the bulk of its impact has been felt clinically in the past 5 years.
Blood group genotyping (BGG)        BGG has now developed into routine use to support patients whom are       transfusion dependent (2,6).
These vulnerable individuals are prone to       alloimmunisation and as a consequence can be life threatening unless they       receive best match possible blood.
Throughout the past fifteen years Avent       and collaborators developed a commercially available product to manage       such patients and is the most comprehensive system available until next       generation sequencing (NGS) protocols are available.
Plymouth University       is at the leading edge of implemention of NGS for Blood group       determination - two abstracts relating to this work are currently in press       (Halawani et al., 2013, Altayar et al., 2013 Transfusion         Medicine).
NGS will ultimately replace array based (i.e.BLOODchip       below and MLPA) assays for BGG.
Avent's group was among the first to       publish this technique and therefore remains at the forefront of BGG.
This       work can readily be evidenced by references 2,4,6 and 7 below.
Bloodchip is used extensively worldwide to manage the difficult to       transfuse patient, and in certain instances during pregnancy.
The full       impact of this development has only been made since 2008- 2013 when the       product was approved for diagnostic use by CE marking which allows its use       as a diagnostic rather than solely research product.
This product's major       advantage over its commercial competitors is that it is able to       comprehensively test for Rh variants and that can cause clinical       complications during pregnancy.
The major current use of blood group       genotyping is the management of transfusion dependent individuals, for       example sickle cell disease.
Avent whilst at Plymouth has developed in       collaboration with Sanquin (Amsterdam) to develop a rapid Multiplex       Ligation Dependent probe amplification (MLPA) based assay for BGG, and has       been published in July 2013 (see reference 6 section 3).
Avent joined the       Transfusion Medicine advisory board (TMAB) for Grifols AG (a large Spanish       multinational pharmaceutical company) in 2011, Grifols acquired Progenika       in 2012 primarily on the value of the BLOODchip product.
The Grifols TMAB       is advising the company on the full integration of blood group genotyping       in Transfusion Medicine, and BLOODchip is now one of the world leading       products for DNA based blood typing.
Grifols also run educational courses       to illustrate and guide the use of blood group genotyping - Avent       participated in these in Japan (2012), Barcelona (x2) (2012 &amp; 2013)       and Birmingham (2013).
