     The report Public health: ethical issues was widely seen as providing a       robust and sophisticated framework within which to debate the many ethical       challenges in public health policy.
The stewardship model and the       intervention ladder, in particular, have been referenced extensively by       policy makers, the legislature and governmental bodies, and continue to be       an important influence to this day.
The report thus succeeded in making a       substantial contribution to a complex debate on the relationship between       the state and the individual, as well as to a topical, relevant, field of       practical policy making, reaching many potential beneficiaries of such a       research contribution.
The significance of the report was recognized when it was published in       2007 and its impact can be seen in references to it in the House of Lords       2008 debate on disease surveillance.
It was also discussed extensively in       the 2012 report on Behaviour change by the House of Lords Science and       Technology select committee.
Even more significant was the fact that in       2010 NICE endorsed the main themes of the report and adopted the       stewardship model as a reference point for guiding decisions about what       types of intervention may be justified.
NICE has subsequently referred to       the Nuffield Report in its 2010 guidance concerning Alcohol Use Disorders       and reaffirmed the general relevance of the Nuffield approach in its       current advice for the development of public health guidance.
Baldwin's role in producing the report led to an invitation to join the       Department of Health's Expert Advisory Committee on Obesity which was       established in 2007 to advise the Government in the development of a       policy to address the problem of obesity (which had been discussed in the       Nuffield Report).
The policy was eventually published in 2008 as Healthy       Weight, Healthy Lives.
Although there is no explicit reference in this       paper to the Nuffield Report, Baldwin had considerable contact with the       team who drew it up and the policy follows the approach to public health       recommended in the Nuffield Report.
Thus the report starts with the       following statement by Gordon Brown, who was then Prime Minister:     "There should be no doubt that maintaining a healthy weight must be the       responsibility of individuals first &#8212; it is not the role of Government to       tell people how to live their lives and nor would this work.
...
The responsibility of Government, and wider society, is to make sure that       individuals and families have access to the opportunities they want and       the information they need in order to make healthy choices and exercise       greater control over their health and their lives.
This is what Government       can do, and it is what will make a real and sustainable difference to all       of us in trying to make healthy choices and lead healthy lives" (Healthy       Weight, Healthy Lives, p. iii).
The new coalition's public health policy document Healthy Lives, Healthy       People also draws on themes from the Nuffield report (especially the       `Nuffield intervention ladder' (see &#182;&#182;2.25-35, 29-30).
Baldwin has       presented these ideas to senior staff at the Department of Health, and the       previous Secretary of State (Andrew Lansley) was been explicit in using       them, as is clear from the following report in the BMJ:     "During a BMA organised debate on health inequalities on 28 October 2010,       England's health secretary, Andrew Lansley, was questioned over a comment       about "collaborative working" with the drink and food industry.
....     Mr Lansley said, "A couple of years ago the Nuffield Council on Bioethics       produced what I found was a very helpful illustration of what they       described as a ladder or hierarchy of interventions.
At the bottom of it       was to do nothing, but it went up with starting to impact on behaviour       change, influencing choices, default choices, intervention, and possibly       introducing a full ban on something'.
"We know that tobacco control is       quite high up that ladder due to the necessity of doing so because the       less intrusive measures have not delivered the objectives we are looking       for.
In other areas, such as the consumption of food, we are capable of       making faster and more meaningful progress through a voluntary partnership       with the food industry than in an adversarial relationship."
In many other areas of public health, the Nuffield Report continues to be       cited in policy debates &#8212; e.g.
concerning vaccination and fluoridisation       and, most recently, regarding the hiring of smokers; it is also cited in       regional public health reports, such as the 2012 report from the Leeds       Director of Public Health (see sources below for details).
