     The Gemeentemuseum Den Haag is one of the most important museums in the       Netherlands and       one of the best known museums of modern art in the world.
Its reputation       rests primarily on its       collection of early twentieth-century art and it has, since the 1950s,       been the home of the largest       single collection of works by the painter and De Stijl contributor, Piet       Mondrian, which now number       over 300 objects.
The reputation of the De Stijl collection at the museum has gone through       significant turmoil in       recent years.
In 1998, a national scandal was caused following the Dutch       government's purchase       of Mondrian's unfinished canvas Victory Boogie Woogie for $40       million from a private American       collector.
The deal for the picture was struck in private and subsequently       required the finance       minister to seek a retrospective royal decree, a procedure attracting a       storm of criticism that       challenged the integrity of the government.
The work itself, part painted,       part covered in bits of       coloured tape, was subject to pillory in the national press, and, when       finally installed in the       Gemeentemuseum Den Haag, was placed behind a protective screen and subject       to round-the-clock       security for fears that it might be damaged by outraged citizens.
In       response to the       accompanying media tirade, art historians and museum professionals began       to speak of the work's       canonical value.
However, at that time, it was solely to position it as an       exalted masterpiece.
Following the institution of the Cultural Canon in 2007, the curator       responsible for the Mondrian       collection at the Gemeentemuseum Den Haag, Hans Janssen, contacted White       to discuss the       possible re-presentation of Mondrian and De Stijl in the museum with the       express aim of employing       aspects of White's 2003 book in the new display (#5.1).
Alongside painting       and sculpture, the       Gemeentemuseum Den Haag has very extensive design and textile collections,       some of which       relate directly to De Stijl.
However, they had never been shown alongside       one another, but kept in       separate departments.
With these various contexts in mind, Janssen's idea       was to follow the       tendency of White's monograph, and even to sharpen it where possible, by       bringing together items       that were formerly consigned to different areas of the museum, and also to       include long loans from       specialist institutions, such as the Netherlands Architecture Institute       (#5.1).
As the concept for the display developed, Janssen consulted White       regularly, and the final       display includes several sections which focus on the explicit elements of       his research, for example       the patronage of De Stijl by industrialists, such as Cornelis Bruijnzeel,       a wood manufacturer whose       company still exists in the Netherlands and is one of the largest       suppliers of fitted kitchens; and the       presentation of Mondrian's studio, formerly considered an exceptional       project of almost mystical       significance, here contextualised in relation to a number of contemporary       Dutch contexts.
In       addition, the exhibition opens with a section dedicated to the concept of       gemeenschapskunst, the       central exhibit of which is a model of H.P.Berlage's Amsterdam Stock       Exchange building, a project       which brought together architecture, sculpture, stained glass, wall       painting and poetry in one       ensemble in a great public building.
White had used this example in the       introduction to his book to       analyse the idea of community and how it was analogised in aesthetic       terms.
Drawing significantly       on White's research, then, the exhibition sought to reorient the       presentation of De Stijl's canonical       character from being about the refinement of an abstract vocabulary of       pure colour and form to an       engagement with public art practices and mass culture; an agenda tying       closely with the Dutch       government's desire to capitalise on, and create a public audience for, as       well as a sense of       shared ownership and responsibility towards, De Stijl (#5.1).
The display, which is intended to remain in place for an initial period       of five years, opened on 24       September 2011, and, since then, has provided the first port of call for       members of the public,       schools and community groups who wish to find out more about what is now       nationally recognised       as the most important artistic contribution to the cultural life of the       Netherlands of the twentieth       century, as well as Dutch contribution to European modernism.
As a       permanent display, there are       no separate ticket sales from which to record attendance.
However, the       museum estimates that       around 250k people visited the display between its opening and May 2013       (#5.2), which is half of       all visitors to the museum during this time, a very large number for a       permanent installation in       competition with the museum's rolling programme of high profile temporary       exhibitions.
This should       be seen in the context of an overall Dutch population of 16m and a museum       in a city of 500k       inhabitants.
Each school day, the display is visited by around 7       educational groups, and the       museum has devised educational programmes at primary and secondary levels       in direct       connection to it (#5.2-3).
The display is also linked to many of the       museum's other educational       tours and workshops which cater for around 15k school children and 10k       adults annually (#5.2-3).
Media interest has been exceptionally high for a permanent installation.
On opening, the display       attracted commentary from all the major Dutch newspapers, as might a       temporary exhibition       (#5.4).
Interestingly, the display has continued to be discussed in the       press, on the radio and on       television after that point.
It has featured on review programmes       (`Kunststof TV', Nederland 2,       December 27 2011; `Kunstuur', Nederland 2, March 30 2013) as well as       children's television (`Het       Klokhuis', Nederland 3, November 17 2011), thereby reaching an extremely       diverse range of       audiences across the entire country.
To accompany the display, the museum commissioned a book in Dutch and       English editions,       Het verhaal van De Stijl / The Story of De Stijl (#5.5), inviting       White to co-author it with the curator.
To ensure the impact of the exhibition, the book relates closely to the       design of the show; one of its       structuring devices is the identification of chapters under headings of       `Home', `Street' and `City',       bringing to the fore the links between De Stijl and modern transformations       in those areas.
The       book is the only general text on De Stijl recommended by the official       Canon of the Netherlands       website, among a range of other specialist books, and White is the only       non-Dutch author listed on       it in the De Stijl-related literature (#5.6).
The decision to publish in       two languages indicates that the       results of White's original research are being disseminated not just to an       Anglophone academic       audience, but to a Dutch generalist audience, and to the very many       English-speaking international       visitors the museum receives every year.
In 2010 and 2011, just prior to the opening of the display in The Hague,       De Stijl exhibitions were       held at the Centre Pompidou, Paris; the Lenbachhaus, Munich; and the       Complesso del Vittoriano       in Rome, all of which benefitted from collaboration with the       Gemeentemuseum and in which the       approach to the subject the Gemeentemuseum had taken was clearly present.
The catalogues of       the exhibitions contained essays by White (#3.3-5), the only author to       contribute to all three of       them, examining the engagement of De Stijl with public art practices,       demonstrating that, while this       topic has obvious significance for a Dutch audience, its reach and       significance go far beyond the       Netherlands and relate to the manner in which its culture is perceived       abroad.
