     BARS aims to enable key cultural institutions to represent the wider and       more diverse range of British art, explored in its research, to the       audiences of today and the future.
To that end we have established       partnerships and collaborations with museums and galleries that hold       significant collections of British art (#5.1), ranging from our       nearest neighbour (York Art Gallery), through the most significant       nationals (Tate Britain, Victoria and Albert Museum), to the leading       institution abroad (Yale Center for British Art).
The direct beneficiaries       are professional colleagues in these institutions, with whom we work in       close collaboration (so the benefits are mutual and reciprocal), but we       also aim at indirect benefits to the growing audiences for British art not       only in the UK but throughout the world.
Co-curatorship of exhibitions and displays: The Department's large       AHRC-funded projects have created opportunities for partners to create new       displays that showcase neglected works from their permanent collections.
CCC       generated two displays at Tate Britain which brought fresh attention to       British art before 1735 by placing it in novel contexts: Court,         Country, City (2010-11) and Dead Standing Things (2011-12,       reviewed favourably in the TLS, 8/6/12); the displays were open       free of charge and well attended by the 556K and 1.5M visitors to Tate       Britain during the respective periods (#5.2, 5.3).
The DVS       project team convened workshops at National Museum Wales, Kelvingrove Art       Gallery, and National Museums Liverpool which led curators in each       institution to rethink the display and interpretation of their sculpture       collections (#5.4).
Research for DVS also led to two free       displays at the Henry Moore Institute, Leeds, which encouraged the Library       and Archive team there to imagine new ways of displaying and interpreting       the collections for the public (#5.5).
DVS has also       supported the research at the Yale Center for British Art and Tate Britain       for a major exhibition on Victorian Sculpture (2014-15).
York's research       on British art pre-1735 and post-1850 has had a broader and more diffuse       impact on curatorial practices in partner galleries, including the       selection of works for Tate Britain's new chronological circuit (launched       May 2013, #5.3).
Staff exchanges: The York Department has formal agreements for       staff exchanges with Tate Britain (since 2009) and the V&amp;A (since       2010), which create impact in the form of continuing professional       development for both curatorial and academic colleagues (#5.1).
Tate colleagues are given the opportunity to teach or co-teach MA modules       in the Department.
In exchange, York colleagues research Tate artworks to       produce `In Focus' projects for Tate's website (see below).
The V&amp;A       staff exchange involves colleagues from each institution spending an       equivalent period in the other each year, to pursue complementary research       on under-studied media such as electrotypes, silver, and ivories (#5.6).
Generation of funding for partner organisations: The Department       uses its research expertise to strengthen grant applications with direct       financial benefit to its partners.
For example, CCC was based       partly on Hallett's research, but conceived from the start as a       collaboration between the Department and Tate Britain.
Together with Tate       Co-Investigators, Professor Nigel Llewellyn and Dr Martin Myrone, Hallett       won an AHRC Major Research Grant (#3.1 above), &#163;101K or 21% of       which went to Tate.
In other cases we have generated grants to support       researchers to work on collections or exhibitions in partner institutions;       for example, an AHRC Cultural Engagement Postdoctoral Award       (February-April 2013) funded Tyreman's project The Three Graces,       which calls attention to little-known works by Victorian women artists in       V&amp;A collections (#5.7); an internal Postdoctoral Award       (May-July 2013) supported Shaw's work with Cartwright Hall, Bradford, on       an exhibition on the neglected British modern artist William Rothenstein.
Co-production of digital resources: Where appropriate, we help our       partners to develop their digital resources and web presence.
With       partners who are already expert in digital and online resources we       cooperate to facilitate dissemination to wider publics including growing       worldwide audiences for British art.
For example, the Tate staff exchange       provided the first two `In Focus' projects published on Tate's website       about particular artworks in Tate's collection.
Designed to offer       scholarly research to Tate's vast worldwide audiences, these multi-voiced,       interdisciplinary projects have brought new knowledge to the national       collection and helped to establish new professional practices and formats       for online dissemination (#5.8).
CCC was supplemented by an       additional &#163;23K from the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art       (PMC) to build The Artworld in Britain 1660-1735, an open-access       database which generated over 25K visits in its first two years (including       significant visitor levels from 18 countries outside the UK, #5.9).
The `British Art Blog', run by BARS doctoral students, collects and       disseminates comprehensive information on events, exhibitions,       conferences, and projects in museum, gallery, or academic contexts       involving British art; the Blog generated over 104K visits from its launch       in Janary 2011 to July 2013 (#5.10).
We conceive our partnerships holistically and the ideal is to bring       together all of the above kinds of collaboration in projects with       significant benefits on both sides.
The best example from the reporting       period is the exhibition William Etty: Art and Controversy,       jointly conceived and co-curated by Mark Hallett and Laura Turner,       Curator of Art at York Art Gallery (YAG), which holds the largest public       collection of this York-born artist (#5.11).
Like other Victorian       artists, Etty was held in low esteem for most of the twentieth century.
Hallett's research on exhibition cultures, Corbett's research on the terms       for modernity in British art, and Edwards's theorisations of gender and       sexuality enabled new interpretations of Etty's work that emphasised the       controversies surrounding his paintings of the nude at public exhibition.
Hallett and Laura Turner won a &#163;43K grant from the PMC which enabled YAG       to employ a postdoctoral researcher to research the objects in the       exhibition and write the catalogue entries; the catalogue also included       essays by Edwards and Sarah Turner.
In addition, the partnership raised       &#163;22K to fund the publication of the catalogue, with grants from the       Friends of YAG, the PMC, and The Marc Fitch Fund.
The exhibition attracted       115,000 visitors, nearly twice the size of the gallery's average audience,       including nearly 50 school parties and more than 1500 children.
The       exhibition also allowed a regional art gallery to attract attention from       the national press, with reviews in The Times, Guardian, Independent,       and on Front Row (#5.11).
To maximise the exhibition's       long-term impact, the Department created a permanent online version,       hosted on its open-access Research Portal, with innovative features       including a 'virtual tour' of the exhibition with 'zoom' technologies,       extended commentaries on works of art, and curatorial tasks for students,       making this not just a digital archive of an exhibition but also an open-       access learning and teaching resource; about half the 1400 visits to the       Portal (from 43 countries) to date have also visited the Etty exhibition.
The online exhibition will serve as a template for future projects with       York Museums Trust to provide digital legacies for collaborative projects       and public access to archive materials.
The success of the entire       exhibition project helped YAG to secure an Art Fund grant of &#163;100,000 to       buy objects for a new show, Flesh, to be co-curated by Applin;       this will carry some of the ideas generated by the Etty exhibition into       later periods up to the contemporary.
The partners are also planning a       series of future exhibitions to raise the profile of other York-born       artists: the stained-glass maker William Peckitt, sculptor John Flaxman,       and Victorian classicist Albert Moore.
