     The contract to realise The Morning Line sound system was awarded       to York by Thyssen-Bornemisza Art Contemporary in 2008, following       competitive tender.
Francesca von Habsburg's T-B A21 is an immensely       significant force in the commissioning of contemporary art, with a       particular commitment to long-term, major, international,       interdisciplinary projects that can be experienced by large numbers and       will `provoke and broaden the way viewers perceive and experience art'       (T-B A21 website).
Perceptual research underpinned the York bid and       informed subsequent knowledge transfer in the areas of research outlined       above: this was the reason for York's success.
The defining attributes of       the bid specification were: that the music should be spatially explorable       by listeners; that the audio presentation should support this robustly;       that the compositions should allow many spatial audio elements with       independent spatial controls.
It should allow commissioned composers and       artists to create new spatial music with appropriate software tools to       make and reproduce their own spatial audio works.
York researchers worked       with New York architects Aranda/Lasch and Arup Advanced Geometry Unit to       develop loudspeaker arrays for the TML structure.
To date, T-BA 21 has invested almost &#8364;2M in the construction,       installation and commissioning for this project.
The TML sculpture       is 20m long and 10m high, weighs 20 tons, and the sound system has 47       channels and 53 waterproof speakers.
The structure is modular, capable of       being radically reconfigured for alternative performance venues and       adaptable to a changing programme of contemporary music.
TML has been exhibited as an outdoor sculpture in public spaces       in: Seville, for a year (2009, including as part of Seville Biennial of       Contemporary Art); Istanbul, for six months (as part of the European       Capital of Culture 2010); Schwarzenbergplatz, Vienna, for six months       (2011, shown in the images above).
It has also been exhibited at the T-B         A21 SoundSpace at the ZKM (Zentrum f&#252;r Kunst und Medientechnologie),       Karlsruhe, which from 2013 will house TML when it is not       travelling.
Each outdoor exhibition was launched with a three to five day       music festival, and in Vienna T-B A21 hosted.
The Morning Line         Symposium, a gathering of contemporary arts practitioners alongside       scientists, architects and engineers, using the project as the basis from       which to examine relationships between sound, architecture, contemporary       art and science.
Given the locations of TML exhibitions, outdoors,       in central locations within major European tourist cities, in addition to       the open access and duration of the exhibitions, it is estimated that TML       and SoundSpace installations have been seen by between 1 and 2       million people.
The impact of the research is technological, artistic and cultural.
The       work is extremely significant for developers of audio technology (in       academia and commercially); for example, Myatt and Larkin were interviewed       about the project for the website of cycling74, the company behind the       most widely used graphical programming software for audio, visual media,       and physical computing (Max, MSP, Jitter, Gen).
The work has established a new form of artistic practice for academic and       artistic communities, situated within the broader, growing field of       spatialized sound and offering artists particular tools for exploring       relationships between sounds in different areas (rather than moving the       sound around one area that surrounds the listener).
Since 2008 T-B A21       have commissioned thirty composers/sound artists from 17 countries to       produce new works for the TML structure using these methods and       technologies.
These include figures as diverse as: Russian-English       composer and inventor of the VCS3 synthesizer, Peter Zinovieff;       influential German guitar-and-laptop artist Christian Fennesz; veteran       Japanese experimental sound pioneer, Yasunao Tone; leading recorder of       wildlife and natural phenomena, Chris Watson; installation artist Florian       Hecker; experimental US rock guitarist and artist Lee Ranaldo (Sonic       Youth); and Norwegian environmental sound artist, curator and producer       Jana Winderen: this range is indicative of the broad application across       musical practices and genres.
Many of those commissioned have acknowledged       considerable changes to their practices as a direct result of involvement       in the project.
Zinovieff describes the experience as life-transforming       (email to Larkin, 06/05/13): he had removed himself from such work for       around 35 years, due to the gap between his aspirations and available       technologies, but the developments for TML turned this around: `Everything       I do now in my busy composing life derives from The Morning Line and ever       present spatial possibilities in the presentation of new electronic       pieces.'
In addition to the installed works, the curators programmed live       events (often as part of the linked festivals), with real-time       performances from some of these composers plus invited live electronic       artists and DJs.
All TML artists were supported by Myatt and       Larkin through on-site visits to TML and in workshops at MIAM (the       Centre for Advanced Studies in Music, University of Istanbul), at the       Akademie der Bildenden K&#252;nste, Vienna, and via video conferencing.
This       support was related to spatial audio perception, its impact on       compositional methods and implementation techniques.
Many composers       travelled to York studios for consultation and production support.
The       final stage collaboration took place in-situ on TML, to mix,       adjust and test the works prior to exhibition.
This application of the York research has provided new opportunities for       public performance and new sonic experiences.
While specific impacts upon       the large number of visitors cannot be proven, the experiential nature of       the work, with the technological developments rooted in understanding of       spatial audio perception, encourages active individual exploration.
In       this respect the numerous amateur youtube videos posted online act as       indicators of engagement.
The increasingly common experiencing of surround       sound in cinema formats serves as a comparator for audiences; walking       around TML, exploring perspectival relationships between areas of       sound, is a different aural experience, sophisticated and subjectively       determined.
