     References to corroborating sources are listed as `[1]'.
The series was broadcast on Al Jazeera's International Network which has       one of the largest       footprints in satellite broadcasting reaching over 100 countries with an       estimated audience of       between 40 and 50 million viewers.
The series was commissioned with the express intention of informing       public debate on slavery and       trafficking, and addressing questions and information directly to       policy-makers and activists in the       field.
The series culminated with an hour-long debate, moderated by Rageh       Omaar, in which       invited guests included Luis C deBaca, ambassador-at-Large at the Office       to Monitor and Combat       Trafficking in Persons, US State Department; Joy Ezeilo, United Nations       Special Rapporteur on       Trafficking in Persons; Kevin Bales, President, Free the Slaves (a       Washington-based international       NGO); David Batstone, President, Not for Sale (a California-based       international NGO).
In the wider public and academic domain the films have had a more       immediate impact.
Focus       pieces like that of Petra Lent McCarron on the Media Voices for         Children blog demonstrate the way       in which the Haiti film, in conjunction with media scrutiny, can       help gain the issues greater       exposure and push them up the political agenda [1].
An informal network of       bloggers and       interested parties has frequently reposted the Al Jazeera video feed and       posted personal       reflections (e.g.
the anonymous blog Feeling a bit oppressed lately?
[2])     Several NGOs, including the Alliance Against Modern Slavery [3] and the       Dalit Freedom Network       [4] offer the films as primary material to help raise awareness.
The films are already used widely as a teaching resource.
Students at       Oakland Early College,       Michigan, (ages 15-19) use the films to compare modern slavery to the 18 th       century trans-Atlantic       slave trade.
Courses run by the American University in Rome have used and       responded to the       films as key texts [5].
The India documentary on trafficked brides prompted students of       the Women's Studies programme       at DePauw University to engage more directly with the activist press,       publishing their responses on       Project Censor's Media Freedom International blog [6]     TOPSY social media analytics give an indication of the widespread public       attention given to the       three films.
TOPSY analytics captured 261 Twitter posts linking to the       Haiti film on the Al Jazeera       page or YouTube channel; the Pakistan film was featured in 305 posts,       while the India film has       been linked to in posts 1649 times.
As at 28.11.12 there had been 279,701       discrete views on the Al       Jazeera `Slavery' website, 329,132 YouTube views in total, 56,241       subscriber views on `Slavery'       podcast, 8,191 listeners with audio and 30,332 `likes' on Facebook.
Al Jazeera created a `Slavery' website which has gathered numerous       comments and opinion on       the series and the individual films.
These can be found by navigating       through the episodes from:       http://www.aljazeera.com/programmes/slaverya21stcenturyevil/2011/10/2011101012574599955.html       [7]     Impact on the interviewees of the films       Shortly after the broadcast of the Pakistan episode, the film's field       producer, Fazeelat Aslam, made       a follow-up film called Yo Haqeen, in Urdu and for broadcast on the AAJ       network in Pakistan.
It       focused on Sayeda Fatima, who was featured strongly in the AJE film and       who runs the Bonded       Labour Liberation Front (BLLF).
A trailer of Fazeelat Aslam's film can be       found here:       http://shelby.tv/video/youtube/kAJaMqzhs7w/ho-yaqeen-episode-4-syeda-fatima-trailer-2 	  [8]     In an email dated 24 May 2013, Ms Aslam provided information about the       impact of the film on the       BLLF: `Since the Al Jazeera and Ho Yaqeen piece, but certainly much can be       attributed to the Al       Jazeera piece exclusively, many workers have become inspired.... Because       of the prominent       reputable names in the piece, many people see how much power Fatima       yields, how important       BLLF is and how it is recognized as well as how much the issue is       recognized.
Workers have no       formed unions and have far more power than ever before.'
[9]     In an email dated 2 July 2013, Syeda Fatima, General Secretary of the       local NGO Bonded Labour       Liberation Front, confirmed that `Ashraf' and his large family, bonded       labourers who were featured       prominently in the Pakistan film, have been freed from the debt       that had trapped them for decades.
[9]     The Indian episode helped Shafiq Kahn, founder of the organisation       Empower People, as reported       in E-mail dated 19 August 2012:       `...definitely your documentary help me in spreading the cause, some       parliamentarians raised this       issue in parliament and other media institutions are now regularly working       publishing about bride       trafficking.
This year I was awarded as amazing Indian by times group       (media institution).
these are       results of aljazeera's documentary,' [9]
