     The research carried out by Papadopoulos, especially the development of       the Trauma Grid and ASPIS, has had impact throughout the world.
Papadopoulos has provided training and influenced the practice of       organisations that work with asylum seekers and refugees in the UK,       Greece, Sudan, and Colombia.
Impact in Europe     Refugee Council     Papadopoulos has worked with the Refugee Council's Therapeutic Casework       Unit (TCU) since 2011 and a Cooperation Agreement was signed between the       Refugee Council and the University of Essex in 2013 [corroborating source       1].
Papadopoulos has collaborated closely with the TCU, sharing the       findings of his research and providing training for staff.
A member of the       TCU team has stated that the Trauma Grid "provides the best framework for       adopting a holistic perspective to working with refugees" [corroborating       source 2].
She adds that the TCU has adopted Papadopoulos' thinking on       Resilience and Adversity-Activated Development and has recognised that his       thinking "enables a tangible shift away from pathologising ordinary       distressful experiences that were the result of extraordinary experiences"       [2].
Further to this, she states that "the ASPIS instrument that he       developed from his EVASP research is a most useful instrument that we use       in order to ascertain the degree of vulnerability in our clients" [2].
Papadopoulous' research has proved fundamental to the practice of the TCU:     "In short, the way TCU is currently practicing is essentially based on       Professor Papadopoulos's research findings.
All members of TCU and the       Refugee Council who have attended his trainings and are familiar with his       work are impressed and feel that their grasp of their work has been       deepened and their expertise has been increased" [2].
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees     The project manager of the UNHCR's Response to Vulnerability in Asylum       (RVA) project met with Papadopoulos in November 2012 to discuss the EVASP       project [3].
This was part of the process of information gathering for the       RVA project, which focuses on the response to vulnerable asylum seekers in       Central Europe.
The research conducted by the UNHCR as part of the RVA       project found that the ASPIS tool developed by Papadopoulos had been       adopted by two organisations in the UK that work with asylum seekers [3]:       the Scottish Refugee Council and Asylum Link Merseyside.
Papadopoulos was       invited to speak at the RVA project's mid-term conference in Prague in       April 2013 &#8212; an event that brought together government stakeholders and       external experts to discuss the initial findings of the project and look       at practical ways of identifying and supporting vulnerable asylum seekers       [3].
In addition, he has spoken at two joint conferences organised by       UNHCR: `No Place Like Home: The refugee experience from dislocation to       relocation' (June 2010) and `Vulnerability or Resilience' (November 2011)       [4].
The Day Centre Babel, Greece     The Greek mental health unit, the Day Centre Babel, which works with       refugees and immigrants in Athens and is part of the Ministry of Health's       Psychargos programme, has adopted Papadopoulos' approach and supplied       training to other organisations in Greece.
Papadopoulos has provided       ongoing supervision and consultation to Babel and was twice (in May 2012       and April 2013) invited to Greece to provide training &#8212; this involved 25       members of Babel staff and 70 participants from other organisations [5].
Babel's Director has stated that "the impact of Professor Papadopoulos'       work has been decisive on the way Babel operates.
The therapeutic approach       we follow (and the one we train others to follow) is based on Professor       Papadopoulos' `Trauma Grid' and ASPIS, both from the EVASP research       project" [5].
Babel have used Papadopoulos' approach to train staff in       other partner organisations (including KETHEA-Mosaic, Medical       Intervention, and Arsis) and have drawn on the EVASP trainers' manual to       do so, which they have translated into Greek [5].
Global impact     Unidad para las V&#237;ctimas, Colombia     The Unidad para las V&#237;ctimas is a Bogota-based government agency that       works with the victims of the internal armed conflict in Colombia.
Papadopoulos visited the newly-established Unidad in August 2012 and gave       a series of seminars to members of staff who were in the process of       defining the guidelines for its programmes and policies [6].
His visit had       two major impacts.
Firstly, in working with the Psychosocial Group at the       Unidad he shed new light on the concept of victim.
The Director of the       Unidad writes,     "His work made us rethink the way in which we were conceiving of victims.
We learnt they are not&#8212;and cannot be&#8212;passive individuals in their own       rights restitution processes.
On the contrary, as active agents, the       empowerment derived from the victims' actions creates capacities for the       individuals and for the community as a whole.
These capacities allow       victims to take hold of their own reparation processes and make them       sustainable over time" [6].
The second main impact of Papadopoulos' visit was to prepare the       facilitators that would go on to provide a training programme in       psycho-social skills for 300 staff from Unidad and other similar       institutions.
This training programme took place in October 2012 [6].
AHFAD Trauma Treatment and Training Centre, Sudan     The AHFAD University for Women in Sudan formed the `AHFAD Trauma       Treatment and Training Centre' (ATTTC) in Khartoum in 2012 and asked       Papadopoulos (through the War Trauma Foundation) to develop the training       programme for its staff and associates and deliver part of the training       himself.
22 professionals have participated in the training that       Papadopoulos has provided (in May 2012, October 2012 and July 2013) [7].
He was invited to train staff at ATTTC due to his research on trauma &#8212; an       approach that the Director of ATTTC describes as "unique in the       professional world and is expressed in the `Trauma Grid'".
She goes on to       say, writing in July 2013, "The `Trauma Grid' has become the main       framework of all our work at ATTTC and this is clearly expressed in the       Training and Practice Manual that we are in the process of writing now"       [7].
