     The research had a direct impact on decisions by health service and       regulatory authorities.
As part of its pathway of impact, the research       programme targeted the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence       (NICE) as a key health and regulatory authority impact target.
It also       considered the Cochrane Collaboration (CC) as a strategic intermediate       target since Cochrane Systematic reviews are used to inform NICE clinical       guidelines.
In August 2011, 731 Cochrane Reviews were used in 106 NICE       guidelines [1].
The research on the factors RPS exercises need to achieve in order to       maximize the impact of systematic reviews led to an organizational         change in the Cochrane Collaboration.
It formed the basis for       developing a new Methods Group within the CC: the Cochrane Agenda and       Priority Setting Methods Group (launched in 2011).
This Group acts to       translate the aforementioned research into policy guidance for research       units within Cochrane [2].
The policy guidance is directed at all 14       Cochrane Centres and to 19 Branches in 30 countries, along with 53 review       groups and 13 fields and networks.
The importance of the research was       recognized by CC awarding it the Bill Silverman Prize in 2012 and by Dame       Sally Davies at the UK &amp; Ireland Cochrane Contributors meeting in       March 2013 highlighting this as a key development in Cochrane to ensure       that Cochrane reviews are relevant to the needs of the NHS [3,4].
Our research group shared the results of the projects, as they were       conducted through workshops to communicate key issues that emerge, to       raise awareness, and to increase public engagement in research.
In an       initial survey in 2008, only half of the Cochrane review groups and fields       that responded (79% response rate) had a process in place for setting       priorities.
Afterwards, all 53 review groups were required to develop and       report an approach for prioritization: an overview of the 2010 report is       available online [2].
Some of the groups were informed by the awareness       activities of our research unit and others directly used the research when       developing their processes.
One of the latter groups, the Cochrane       Musculoskeletal Review Group, published their work in a peer reviewed       journal [5].
Beyond the impact achieved through the targeted approach, the       peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations were picked up by       several organizations and led to additional impact.
The research that       identified the link between the incidence of oral and pharyngeal cancer in       English South Asian communities and the prevalence of smokeless tobacco       usage from the Health Survey for England unveiled a research gap around       health inequality and its association with a risk behaviour that was       picked up by NICE, which decided to conduct a new technology assessment.
This directly contributed to the decision by NICE to conduct a formal       systematic evaluation of smokeless tobacco cessation technologies between       2011 and 2012 in order to identify the most appropriate prevention       strategies for incorporation within its public health guidance published       in 2012 [6] to provide support specifically targeted at people in South       Asian communities.
The NICE guideline, in which this research is       referenced under the section on Public Health Need and Practice, helps       people of South Asian origin who are living in England to stop using       traditional South Asian varieties of smokeless tobacco.
Therefore, the       research also had a consequent impact in informing public health       prevention strategies.
In 2012, Cochrane Canada and Pan American Health Organisations (PAHO)       approached us to develop and organise online training resources on       research priority setting informed by the RPS research.
These resources       are available online at no cost to all global health researchers and       Cochrane groups [7].
The UK Cochrane Centre requested an additional       training session for the 25 UK-based Cochrane groups that was organized in       the UK and Ireland Cochrane Contributor Meeting for 2013 and it was used       to develop training resources on RPS Methods for the Yorks and Humber       Research Design Service, part of the NHS that supports researchers to       develop and design high quality research proposals [8,9].
Following the       publication of the results, NETSCC/NIHR has approached the unit for advice       on using the research to inform their processes.
This led to a new       research grant proposal to test and pilot these results in their institute       along with NICE and the Association of Medical Charities.
This is       currently under evaluation by the Medical Research Council.
