     The protocols Leader has outlined for best negotiating commercial       interests and human rights       have been applied to existing and new international investment contracts.
Leader has provided       extensive guidance on investment and human rights law for governments       (including in Uganda       and the UK) and for NGOs working in this field (including Amnesty       International and Global       Witness).
Much of this activity is undertaken in his role as Director of       the Essex Business and       Human Rights Project (EBHR), a University centre that fosters       interdisciplinary work on business       and human rights and offers training and research digests for non-academic       users.
Leader and       EBHR's impact activities in the REF impact period have been varied, and       the most notable       examples are included below.
BP and Amnesty International     Leader's Amnesty International paper on the BTC pipeline project (2003)       attracted the attention       of BP, which invited Amnesty and Leader to aid their negotiation of       additional clauses to the BTC       contract.
Using the principles developed in the research, he formulated       the content of a Human         Rights Undertaking for the BTC contract and with the support of       Amnesty International UK       secured its adoption by BP [corroborated by Amnesty International UK's       Economic Relations       Programme Director, source 1].
While the instrument was adopted in 2003,       new phases in its       impact have arisen since 2008.
The BTC case received significant attention       from legal       practitioners and international bodies such as the UN and the       International Finance Corporation       (IFC).
Leader's meetings with senior officials in Washington DC and his       contribution to two World       Bank workshops prompted the UN, IFC, and the World Bank to undertake their       own research in       this area.
This research included a report published in 2009 and led by       the UN Secretary-General's       Special Representative for Business and Human Rights, Professor John       Ruggie.
The       report entitled, `Stabilization Clauses and Human Rights', was influenced       by Leader's research       and as a result covered the details of the BTC case [corroborating source       2].
This impact has       also been confirmed by Amnesty International's Head of Business Networks:     `The significant institutional impacts of which I am aware include:       1)...Professor John Ruggie,       published a report [that] drew largely on Professor Leader's analysis.
2)       ...The interactions       that Sheldon had with the World Bank and International Finance       Corporation...has led to       recognition by the IFC that the interface between investment contracts and       human rights is a       significant issue that needs to be addressed.
An outcome of this was IFC's       involvement in       and co-sponsorship of the research undertaken on this by Professor       Ruggie's team'     Economic Relations Programme Director, Amnesty International UK     The most recent impact of the Undertaking was on the OECD UK       National Contact Point, which       in 2011 decided not to uphold complaints made against BP.
Their decision       was partly based on       the fact that BP had agreed to the Human Rights Undertaking       drafted and negotiated by Leader       [corroborating source 3, especially para 27].
Finally, his work with Amnesty International has also had a significant       and broader influence on       their NGO activities: `Sheldon Leader is a widely acknowledged expert in       the field of business       and human rights, whose leadership has served as a catalyst for research       and advocacy       initiatives that might not otherwise have taken place' [Economic Relations       Programme Director,       Amnesty International UK].
Impact on Ugandan legislation     In 2012 Uganda's Parliament appointed a Committee on Natural Resources to       evaluate       legislation drafted to manage the country's developing oil and gas       industry.
To help with the       Committee's assessment of the legislation, in January 2012 Leader       delivered a three-day       training programme in Uganda for members of the Committee.
The training       programme used       Leader's research to inform them of the human rights dangers related to       the extractive industries       and to recommend legislative solutions to the problems faced in Uganda.
In       the words of the       Chairperson of the Natural Resources Committee, `the training helped       improve the       understanding of members about the oil and gas sector' [source 4].
The       Committee has also       confirmed that Leader's training programme influenced changes to the draft       legislation.
These       changes included the addition of new clauses to increase transparency of       the management of       the extractive industries, to ensure full state ownership of a new       National Oil Company, and to       give the Ugandan Government discretion in deciding whether to open up new       areas for       extraction licencing [source 4].
Global Witness, and Government Petroleum Contracts     Leader has collaborated with NGO Global Witness on a number of occasions       to analyse       investment contracts in Liberia and to inform Global Witness campaigns for       contractual       amendments to protect the rights of Liberian citizens.
His contribution to       the work of Global       Witness in Liberia has been most prominent with regard to two major       investment contracts:            Leader and EBHR have provided analysis of the contract between the         Government of Liberia         and Firestone Liberia Inc.
The contract, first signed by the         Transitional Government and later         amended without substantial public consultation in February 2008, came         under scrutiny from         Global Witness which published a report based on his analysis in         November 2008 [source 5].
Leader and EBHR have also provided analysis of Liberia's Mineral         Development Agreement         with China Union Investment Company, signed in January 2009.
His         analysis of the contract         informed a Global Witness statement on the dangers of the contract         [source 6].
His contribution to the operation of Global Witness and the effectiveness       of their campaigns,       both in general and in the above cases, has been attested by their Team       Leader in Conflict       Resources, who writes: `I cannot overemphasise how important that work of       Prof Leader and the       other experts has been to Global Witness and in turn to Liberia.
It has       enabled the Government       of Liberia to negotiate contracts that will benefit the people of Liberia'       [source 7].
EBHR has also       contributed to Global Witness campaigns concerning Afghanistan and Uganda       [as corroborated       by their Deputy Campaigns Director, source 8].
The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office     From 2012 Leader has given extensive guidance to the UK's Foreign and       Commonwealth Office,       specifically to their Human Rights and Democracy Department on their work       to develop a       Government strategy on business and human rights.
His aid to the FCO's       development of the       strategy primarily took the form of his contribution of academic inputs to       four stakeholder       meetings, each held to consult a range of relevant institutions to discuss       the best way to       implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
In the       words of the FCO's       Deputy Head of its Human Rights and Democracy Department, `Leader played a       leading role in       introducing sessions and stimulating debate...His role was essential in       drawing on his depth of       knowledge and expertise in order to ask the right probing questions'.
The       Deputy Head has told       us `that without this help from Essex our work would have been much harder       and less well-informed'       [source 9].
