     The impact detailed here focuses on the use of BHPS data by government       departments and third-sector       organisations, either internally or through commissioned reports from 2008       onwards.
It       mainly focuses on impacts on policy related to poverty and disadvantage,       equalities and the family.
However, this is part of a broader picture and over this period we have       identified 43 reports       published or commissioned by government departments or third-sector       organisations, as well as a       number of other uses.
Of particular relevance for policy use has been       annual panel data supporting       research persistence and transitions, which has permitted a shift in the       focus of policy from a       concern simply with numbers in particular states at a given point in time       to an investigation of       factors leading to persistence and transitions.
The use of BHPS by the Department for Work and Pensions     The DWP uses BHPS data for the calculation of four-year persistent       poverty rates for the Low-Income       Dynamics statistics, which are published in parallel with Households Below       Average       Income statistics according to arrangements approved by the UK Statistics       Authority.
The 2010       Low-Income Dynamics report sets out in detail in Section 1 the way       that it draws on BHPS data       gathered between 1991 and 2008 [corroborating source 1].
The statistics       and commentary give an       insight into the standard of living of the household population in the       United Kingdom, focusing on       the lower part of income distribution.
A lower level of children in persistent poverty is one of four targets in       the Child Poverty Act 2010.
Although the Act does not make explicit reference to the BHPS it       stipulates that the necessary       statistical surveys must be used to assess whether the targets are being       met &#8212; in the case of       persistent poverty the Act stipulates that this must come into force       before 2015 [corroborating       source 2].
Given the DWP's use of BHPS data to measure persistent poverty       rates, it is reasonable       to assume that the BHPS constitutes one of the statistical surveys       necessary to assess whether       the government is meeting this target.
Indeed, the current government's       Child Poverty Strategy       also makes use of BHPS data and explicitly identifies the role for       Understanding Society as an       indicator for persistent poverty in Annex A [3].
The document also states       in paragraph 5.12 that       "We will explore the potential of using longitudinal studies to better       capture those who are living in       sustained severe poverty (in particular the large scale Understanding       Society study)" as well as       making numerous references to BHPS findings [3].
The BHPS data that the DWP uses to measure persistent poverty is also       used by the Scottish       Government in figures on the percentage of children, working-age adults,       and pensioners       experiencing persistent poverty in Scotland.
This measure of persistent       poverty was introduced in       chapter 4 of the Poverty and income inequality in Scotland: 2009-10       report published in 2011 [4].
These statistics are used to monitor progress towards Scottish Government       targets to reduce       poverty and income inequality.
The DWP submitted evidence that used BHPS-generated statistics on       persistent poverty in       pensioners to the 2009 Work and Pensions Committee report Tackling         Pensioner Poverty.
This       evidence relies on BHPS-derived figures on the percentage of pensioners       with income 60% below       median income in at least three out of four years [5].
BHPS data are also       used in Pensim2, the       Department's model for simulating the effects of different pension       policies.
For instance, BHPS       figures are used in estimating earnings when modelling future payments to       pensioners under       different schemes [6].
Trevor Huddlestone, Chief Analyst at the DWP, in a       House of Lords Select       Committee stated that Pensim2 "models the life course.
In order to do that       you need to have the       right data and we did have the right data and the right computer power"       [7].
The use of BHPS data by other government departments     The use of BHPS data has become routine in UK Government departments       beyond the DWP and       in the period since 2008 we have identified uses by various departments,       including HM Revenue       and Customs, Department of Business, Innovation and Skills, Department for       Education,       Department of Health, Department for Culture, Media and Sport, and       Department for Communities       and Local Government.
BHPS-based research has been used by the Cabinet Office and Department       for Children Schools       and Families in identification of key issues for the development of family       policy, especially around       the issues of family and family breakdown and the implications for       children.
BHPS data used in the       research underpins the 2008 evidence paper, Families in Britain       [8].
BHPS findings have been regularly used to inform strategy papers.
For       instance, the Cabinet       Office's 2008 discussion paper on social mobility, Getting on, getting         ahead, uses BHPS data in its       analysis of opportunities to progress in the workplace [9].
BHPS data is       also used to inform       Scottish Government strategy and, for instance has informed a paper on the       implications of       changing household formation on housing policy [10].
The use of BHPS data within the third sector     The BHPS is used by policy and third-sector organisations for policy       evaluation and development.
This includes for example, the Low Pay Commission, Institute for Public       Policy Research, Equality       and Human Rights Commission, Fawcett Society, The National Young       Volunteers Service, Centre       for Social Justice, The Children's Society, National Council for One       Parent Families, Financial       Services Authority, and Age UK.
BHPS findings are regularly cited by third-sector organisations in their       submissions to House of       Commons committees.
For example, the Resolution Foundation used BHPS data       to establish the       profile of low earners in evidence submitted to the Treasury Committee's       2008 report, Budget         measures and low-income households [11].
BHPS data has been used to       inform policy reports by       organisations such as the Centre for Social Justice on family breakdown       [12] and the Children's       Society on relationships between fathers and children [13].
