     The major impacts of Harvey's work have come about through The         evasion economy report influencing the policy of the Labour Party,       with false self-employment becoming a concern of ministers, and       subsequently shadow ministers, following the 2010 General Election.
The evasion economy report was presented to the Annual Delegate       Conference, Union of Construction, Allied Trades and Technicians, Perth,       May 2008 - a conference at which Angela Eagle, the then Treasury Minister,       spoke at length about the problem of false self-employment.
Following the       publication of the report, Harvey attended a series of meetings with       Angela Eagle, HMRC, and Treasury officials.
In July 2008 the TUC and the Labour Government formed the second `Warwick       Agreement' at its National Policy Forum, which included a commitment to       eradicate false self-employment in the construction industry.
The       agreement outlined the commitments that would have formed government       policy, had the Labour Party gained a fourth term in office.
The agreement       was published in the 2008 National Policy Forum Report and the section on       Prosperity and Work includes the statement:     "We have acted to protect agency workers but we recognise the damaging       effects that false self-employment status can have and will work to       eradicate false self-employment: we will put in place a series of measures       that will ensure no one is falsely classified self-employed, these will       include using procurement rules on all publicly-funded projects.
The HMRC       enforcement regime will be applied vigorously and proactively in       eradicating false employment" (p. 175) [corroborating source 1].
The references to false self-employment within the document came about as       a result of amendments put forward by UCATT.
A senior figure at UCATT has       confirmed that "Mark Harvey's research most certainly assisted UCATT in       the formation of the amendments the union submitted to the Prosperity and       Work Policy document" [corroborating source 2].
Labour's 2009 budget stated that "The Government remains committed to       addressing false self-employment in the construction industry.
The       Government will consult with a view to future legislation to ensure that       construction workers and those they work for are taxed appropriately"       (5.114; p. 111) [3].
This led to, in July 2009, the Treasury and HMRC       circulating a consultation document, False self-employment in         construction: taxation of workers, to all stakeholders.
The       consultation document referred to The evasion economy as its sole       academic source.
The document states that whilst the Government does not       agree with Harvey's figure of 400,000 workers affected by false       self-employment, the figure had been revised upwards by 50% to 300,000 (p.       12) [4].
The most recent Labour Government budget (March 2010), included       provisions to change the tax regime with the aim of eliminating false       self-employment in the construction industry: "The Government published a       summary of responses to the consultation on false self-employment in       construction on 9 March 2010.
The Government is committed to addressing       this problem and will continue to work with stakeholders to develop a       legislative solution" (5.94; p. 83) [5].
Whilst we cannot demonstrate       conclusively that the inclusion of false self-employment in this budget       was the result of Harvey's work, we do know that the TUC Executive       Committee's 2010 Budget Submission made direct reference to The         evasion economy (pp.
58-59) [6].
More recently, with Labour in opposition, Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls'       speech to the TUC in September 2012 promised to crack down on bogus       self-employment.
Balls asked Rachel Reeves, the Shadow Treasury Secretary,       to look into the issue [7].
In 2013, a member of the Shadow Cabinet       revealed to us that The evasion economy "has been fed into the       work we've been doing on this subject so it has been relevant and useful"       [8].
Labour MP for Streatham, Chuka Umunna, spoke at length about false       self-employment in the House of Commons on 4 March, 2011 and explicitly       mentioned the University of Essex's research [9].
Later in 2011 he was       promoted to Shadow Secretary of State for Business, Skills &amp;       Innovation and has continued to speak on false self-employment, including       a Commons debate on 23 January 2013 [10].
In addition to parliamentary debate, between 2008 and 2010, three Early       Day Motions were submitted on the subject of false self-employment, and       all three mentioned Mark Harvey by name [11].
The first of these (1669;       02.06.08) was signed by 72 MPs, from not only the Labour Party but also       Liberal Democrats, Plaid Cymru, and an independent member.
In addition, a       House of Commons Standard Note (SN/BT/196; 20.04.10) sets out historically       the issue of false self-employment and cites Harvey's work (p. 7) [12].
