     LU's interdisciplinary model based systems engineering (MBSE) research as       cited in section 2 and 3 (2001-2010) has directly enabled life-saving       operations by i) Developing synthetic vision systems to improve safety of       emergency services helicopter operations involving low level flight during       day, night, all weather and conditions of zero visibility, and ii) Saving       lives through a reduction in morbidity and mortality of babies born with       congenital heart defects.
The impact translates directly into significant cost savings and safety       risk reductions in expensive flight trials costing millions of pounds by       BAE Systems [5.1], and in clinical practice/surgical interventions       by University Hospital of Rennes [5.2] with a reduction in the       morbidity and mortality of babies born with congenital heart defects.
LU's integrative cross-discipline MBSE research has solved previously       intractable challenges by developing new techniques in       multi-disciplinary/multi-scale modelling and simulation.
The consequences       of the impact are diverse and have wide reach across different domains and       not confined to the two examples described below.
i) Synthetic vision systems to improve safety of helicopter operations         involving low level flight during day, night and all weather to zero         visibility     The goal was to enable the emergency services, military and other       services to operate into day and night, under adverse weather conditions,       through the safe use of synthetic vision (thus enabling operations in       hazardous conditions), addressing the big challenge of presenting       time-critical sensor information to the aircrew.
In order to fly at       low-level and high-speed in these extremely adverse conditions, a suite of       active/passive sensors capable of detecting hazards must be integrated to       present a synthetic display of the outside world to the pilot.
However,       combining sensory information from multiple sensors (operating in       different wavelengths/modalities) with on-board databases has previously       been an intractable problem due to the time critical nature of the       information.
Before a synthetic display system can be cleared for flight       the system must be tested under complex and inherently expensive       flight-trials in representative operational conditions.
Such flight-trials       involve testing in extreme conditions that are currently outside flying       regulations with all hazards including terrain, building structures,       telegraph wires, pylons, and aerial masts.
Such tests expose the crew and       helicopter to serious risks where the crew and helicopter could be lost.
Consequently, each new system concept must be tested which leading to       escalations in costs and risks.
Applying the research results [3.1-3.3] in conjunction with [G3.1-G3.7]       enabled Loughborough to implement a comprehensive coupled-model systems       simulator which integrated real-time models (atmosphere, on-board sensors,       sensor performance, system performance, helicopter flight dynamics,       synthetic vision display presentation and models of human reaction       time/behaviour).
The heterogeneous model based simulator directly enabled       BAE Systems to rapidly evaluate simulations of candidate synthetic vision       systems with time critical information symbology before commencement of       flight trials.
This simulator enabled the development of highly effective       visually-coupled head-mounted augmented reality perceptual cue displays       comprising synthetic information, including accommodating the implications       and rationale of 2000m visibility (dictated by air regulations).
The       simulator took the place of early flight trials and reduced the number of       flight tests that had to be undertaken by identifying conflicting sensory       and perceptual cues so that they could be excluded from flight trials.
Consequently, months of flight development time and significant costs       (&#163;millions) were saved along with the inherent reduction in crew risks and       improved safety enhancement through use of the simulator.
This research       was subjected to a detailed integrity assessment (involving calibration       against real-world flight trials and helicopter sensor/system       performance), proving it comprehensively addressed perceptual issues of       spatial awareness, and range to interference (collisions with pylons,       terrain, telephone poles etc.)
in obscured visibility conditions.
Loughborough also developed key augmented reality perceptual cues that       were presented via the visually coupled (head-mounted) display ensuring       appropriate pilot evasive action could be taken within human reaction       times.
The simulator was validated constantly against the flight test       vehicle enabling a comprehensive safety integrity assessment to address       the issue of perceptual spatial awareness and range to interference in       obscured visibility conditions.
Loughborough's mathematical model of       spatial error in relation to the obstacle profiles formed a key part of       the safety case.
Comprehensive simulator trials provided significant       development timesavings and reduced risks leading to effective perceptual       display symbology through testing of concepts prior to flight-testing in       the Lynx helicopter (Army Air Corps base &#8212; Middle Whallop).
Benefits are       significant for all helicopter operators by offering unprecedented       increase in safety whilst extending current limited operational envelopes.
ii) Saving lives through a reduction in morbidity and mortality of         babies born with congenital heart defects     Significant impact has accrued through a reduction in morbidity and       mortality of babies born with congenital heart defects (the congenital       heart defect known as the `tetralogy of Fallot').
This is one of the most       common cyanotic heart defects, affecting 20% of babies born with a       congenital heart defect.
LU's multi-scale systems models have advanced the       theoretical knowledge and understanding of the multi-scale mechanisms that       underpin the clinical condition.
Since 2012, 591 babies in Brittany (i.e.
population served by Rennes who were diagnosed with the condition) have       had their treatment and surgical intervention significantly influenced by       the research through its adoption by the only Paediatric Cardiologist       (Prof J-M. Schleich) based in Brittany.
LU's multi-scale systems models       confirm the hypotheses of findings from the wet biologists       (experimentalists) &#8212; and have for the first time allowed the paediatric       cardiologists at the University Hospital of Rennes (CHU) to integrate       findings from geneticists, cell biologists, and pathologists to gain a       more complete understanding of this congenital heart defect.
The use of       multi-scale systems engineering, has allowed modelling of clinical       findings and their patho-physiological underpinnings to take place.
With       the addition of CHU's work in medical imaging of heart specimens it has       been possible to pin-point the anatomical landmarks important for the       diagnosis of tetralogy of Fallot.
Our unifying cross-discipline MBSE research has solved previously       intractable challenges confirming the wide diversity/applicability of the       research.
Both examples supporting the impact case studies involved       extensive end-user stakeholders working alongside LU researchers to       provide effective and timely bi-directional knowledge transfer.
This       method of working has been cited (in letters of support [5.1 and 5.2])       as an excellent mechanism for delivering rapid impact from low technology       readiness level research.
