     The agriculture, tourism and associated international income derived by       Kenya from the Lake Naivasha region are critical for the future       development of the country (A).
Harper's research was pivotal in       detecting this emerging ecological disaster and providing the evidence       needed by other bodies to allow them to become involved in the restoration       and development efforts.
In addition, his work suggested solutions, and       indicated how to monitor success, thus underpinning the activity that is       restoring the Naivasha ecosystem for ecological and human benefit.
A spokesperson from the Lake Naivsha Riparian Association commented "..         when Professor Harper began to write and speak publically in the mid         2000s about the lake's degraded state and make dire predictions about         its future, everybody listened to what he was saying, including the         government and the horticultural industry.
His voice was not the only         one calling for action by 2009, but it was the only one based on a         scientific evaluation of the causes of degradation and with realistic         proposals for how to reverse this state."
(B)     Raising local, national &amp; international awareness of Naivasha's           ecological degradation.
Harper first raised public concern in 2005 through extensive media       engagement on the Lake's deteriorating ecosystem and has continued these       efforts since then.
In 2009, for example, he was invited to address the       consortium of EU retailer cut-flower buyers (`Coopernic') in Kenya,       Frankfurt, Brussels and Vienna on the ecosystem's deterioration &#8212; to       propose mechanisms to allow supermarkets to sponsor practical restoration       activities at the Lake.
As a result of these addresses and associated       conversations, substantial funding (&#163;500K) was raised from 2 Coopernic       members for the restoration of critical lake margin habitats and projects       promoting sustainable water use, water education and purifying surface       water supplies by ecological methods for rural communities (C,D).
WWF-UK began funding initiatives to protect the lake in July 2011,       building on support WWF-Netherlands had provided since 2007, assisting       businesses and people to protect Lake habitats and species, while still       meeting their own needs (E).
Development of the Imarisha Naivasha Trust (`Imarisha' = `arise' in           Swahili)     As a result of the public concern raised by Harper's work, the Prince of       Wales and the Kenyan Prime Minister discussed the Lake's state at a       climate change conference in early 2010, resulting in a visit to Lake       Naivasha by representatives of the Prince's International Sustainability       Unit for discussions with the Kenyan Government and local people (B,F).
Harper advised ISU staff for the visit and assisted with the development       of ISU's subsequent report, which led directly to the establishment of an       organisation &#8212; the Imarisha Naivasha Trust &#8212; (Gazette Notice No.
5368 20th May 2011) by the Prime Minister (G).
Harper has continued to assist Imarisha in formulating the organisation's       structure and plans, leading to the 5-year Sustainable Development Action       Plan in 2012 and the more broadly based Lake Naivasha Integrated       Management Plan 2012-22 (IMP; H,I).
Imarisha Naivasha has       since raised over &#163;1M for its continuing work from retailers (such as       Asda, Sainsburys, Tesco and M&amp;S, Finlays Horticulture Kenya, REWE and       COOP) and the UK, Dutch and Swedish governments and charities such as WWF.
Harper is currently Hon Secretary to Imarisha Trust's Research &amp;       Monitoring Technical Committee (G) and has been commissioned to       deliver a summary report and a database of existing knowledge covering the       major initial milestones of the SDAP.
Addressing the issues     The SDAP and IMP aim to address the issues facing Lake Naivasha and       develop sustainable water-use activities such as tree planting and       restoration of the papyrus beds which play a crucial role in water       filtration and purification.
For example, Finlays Horticulture Kenya and       its customer German retailer REWE are funding a project to investigate the       water cleaning effects of papyrus when planted on floating islands made of       recycled post-consumer plastics, such as bottled water containers, made by       a company called "Floating Islands International" (J).
Other       initiatives include the use of water hyacinth, a problematic invasive       species, for handicrafts such as baskets; this would bring income from       sales of goods as well as easing pressure on the lake, as well as the use       of papyrus for charcoal to ease pressure on the local forest (K).
A monitoring programme for lake health and a database of information is       being developed as part of SDAP to support the "enabling conditions for       effective water regulation and governance, sustainable land and natural       resource use and sustainable development in the Lake Naivasha Basin".
Imarisha has been awarded 400,000 Euro by GIZ (German       International Cooperation Fund) to assist with schemes such as the       promotion of alternative renewable energy sources and the development of       riparian evaluation techniques for community monitoring to provide future       evidence of successful restoration and to organise knowledge transfer from       the scientific community to the Naivasha stakeholders (H).
In 2013, Imarisha, in partnership with WWF, received 900,000 Euros Dutch       Government funding launched the Integrated Water Resource Action Plan       (IWRAP), which will underpin the rising sales of Fair Trade flowers to       European supermarkets.
The research carried out by Harper and colleagues at Leicester is helping       to save and restore both the lake and the thriving businesses around it       for future generations.
