     For over a decade, Franklin has been active as participant-observer (and       since 2012 co-Chair) of the Internet Rights and Principles Dynamic       Coalition at the UN         Internet Governance Forum.
A broad-based international network, the       IRP Coalition plays a formative and active role in an arena where human       rights are becoming increasingly the focus for internet policy-making       agendas and, in turn, the internet a focus for rights-based advocacy and       monitoring by the international human rights community.
It has helped to       frame the debate in an area where governments, the private sector and       civil society voices have a stake in the outcomes.
The IGF frames       international debates and policy agendas for internet ownership and       control, including infrastructure, access, terms of use, web-based goods,       and services and content.
It is based on the multi-stakeholder       participatory model that characterizes the IGF, which includes UN       member-states, IGOs, business, NGOs, academics, and technical experts in       all discussions.
The key results of this work are the Charter of Human Rights and         Principles for the Internet and the 10 Internet Rights &amp;         Principles [1].
The Charter and the Ten Principles were launched       during the Arab Spring of 2010-2011.
They have become central to other       calls for internet rights such as European Digital Rights (EDRI, 2011), to       international mobilization against the ACTA and SOPA bills in the USA, and       to keeping human rights at the centre of debates around internet       governance and telecommunications regulations at the UN.
The aftermath of       the revelations of widespread illegal state surveillance of online       communications has raised the ante over the last year, confirming as it       does the prescience of this work to generate a broad-based and       recognizable articulation of human rights and principles for the online       environment.
The IRP Coalition, and the Charter of Human Rights and         Principles for the Internet, have been instrumental in this       agenda-setting domain.
Franklin has played a key role both in driving forward the debate and in       achieving the widest possible international influence [2].
A founding       member of the IRP Coalition in 2008, she was a contributor to the drafting       of the IRP Charter in 2009-2011.
In November 2012 she became the IRP       Coalition co-Chair at the 2012 UN Internet Governance Forum meeting in       Baku, and in this role she has achieved a prominent public presence during       2013 [3].
As human rights and the internet have become a growing public       concern, this leadership role is where Franklin has been helping shape and       steer debates about placing the IRP Charter, and human rights generally,       into international and national legal and regulatory frameworks.
Franklin's impact is anchored in her research projects and publications;       and in over a decade of observation, active participation and public       leadership in online and on-the-ground decision-making debates.
Its value       for the preservation of human rights online was recognised both by the       Council of Europe's Compendium project on the existing rights of internet       users [4] and by the UN Human Rights Council [5].
Her research to date,       and her advocacy around human rights and the internet, recognizes that it       is vital to engage ordinary people and NGOs in other areas (e.g.
health,       education, development) in this emerging arena, as everyday life, work,       and politics become increasingly embedded in the online environment and       practices that internet technologies enable.
Civil society participation in the IGF, and gradually in arenas such as       ICANN and ITU meetings, reflects increasing public awareness and       controversy over how rights and responsibilities in the offline       environment are reflected, yet distinct, in the online environment.
Franklin's activism is a formative contribution to setting this agenda and       the terms of debate.
Human rights and related socio-cultural concerns       (e.g.
disability, non-English language needs, cultural legacies) &#8212; once       considered as a footnote to the `real' business of software design and       telecommunication engineering task forces, or realpolitik of global versus       state-centric internet governance agendas &#8212; are now top of the agenda.
Franklin has been especially influential in framing the influential and       highly praised IPR Charter of Human Rights and Principles for the         Internet and in the development of the follow-up IRP Charter         2.0: Human Rights &amp; Principles for the Internet in Practice [6].
Furthermore she has played a major part in the IRP Coalition's role as       part of a wider movement to put human rights and principles on the       Internet Governance Forum agenda.
This year's meeting in Bali, Indonesia       sees this goal achieved [3].
The IRP Coalition's work on the IRP Charter has been a cornerstone and       inspiration for a range of initiatives to promote human rights issues       online around the world.
Examples include the Brazilian Marco Civil and       its Bill of Digital Rights (The         Brazilian Internet Steering Committee), the Swedish government (Stockholm         Internet Forum), the Council of Europe, and NGOs such as European       Digital Rights (EDRi).
Acknowledgment of the relevance of the IRP       Charter's role in promoting human rights as a core principle for       developing appropriate checks and balances to abuses of human rights       online has been gathering pace in the past two years, for example among       the Council of Europe, the Multistakeholder Advisory Group that organizes       the annual UN IGF meetings, European and US internet service providers,       interest groups and consumer associations.
The existence of a coherent and inspirational framework for human rights       in the diverse domains that make up internet governance has excited       attention from policy-makers, pundits and media watchdogs around the       world: from Vint Cerf, the `father of the Internet' in the US, and the       Canadian-based Centre for Law and Democracy [7], to the Centre for       Internet and Society in Bangalore, India; from civil society groups in       Latin American countries such as Brazil and Argentina, to the UK-based       network Nominet and EU forums like the Council of Europe and the European       Dialogue on Internet Governance (EuroDIG), where Franklin was moderator at       the final plenary session [8].
At all these points the IRP Coalition, and       Franklin's scholarly output and leadership, have played an instrumental       role in reframing the debate, and keeping the internet governance and ICT       for Development agendas accessible to human rights concerns.
Recent       revelations of widespread and excessive forms of governmental online       surveillance of ordinary people on a global scale have put human rights       and principles at the centre of the future of the internet, so her work       has gained traction and increasing public attention in the media [9].
