     McRobbie's longitudinal, case-study based and qualitative research       methodology has involved her       in forming long-term collaborative partnerships and associations with the       small companies and       organisations she studies.
The closeness of these relationships is       encouraged by its feminist and       egalitarian ethic.
Its impact is typically implemented by the same       individuals who are the subjects       of her research, within the design studio itself or in the immediate       office environment.
In effect,       McRobbie becomes an in-house social scientist and professional researcher,       often contributing to       catalogue essays and reports, writing for artistic and curatorial projects       in Berlin, working with       organisations and policy advisers across Europe, and presenting at       seminars and roundtables in       London and the UK, in Germany and Austria, and in Italy.
Specific impacts       on fashion companies,       organisations and individuals are described in more detail below.
In London and the UK     McRobbie has been a respected figure in the UK fashion world since the       early 2000s, known for a       localised and social approach to sustainable careers in fashion design.
In       recent years, with the       economic recession and with the new generation of start-ups, her original       recommendations for a       more collaborative `fashion centre' model, first made in 1998-2000, have       found a fresh place in the       policy agenda.
This model encourages young designers, with low levels of       capital and investment,       to work together, sharing both expensive equipment and knowledge about       suppliers and producers.
And because McRobbie has widened the range of her research in the last       decade to include fashion       multi-taskers and other `young creatives', her work has also informed       various other start-up styles       of working.
Examples include the small graphic design company       `rebeccaandmike' in London,       globally renowned fashion company Wah Nails, Susie Stone Bespoke       Womenswear London, and       new fashion label Teilja London.
The CEO of Wah Nails (also a Nike Consultant and Fashion Stylist)       has acknowledged her debt to       the ideas expressed in [3], arguing for commercial independence from       sponsorship or artist/fashion       grants from the public purse.
In response to [1] she changed her working       practices, embarking on       multi-tasking rather than single fashion-design practice [7].
McRobbie's research has shaped policy and thinking at the Departure for       Culture, Media and Sport,       as well as London Fashion Week; and it has been highly influential on       London's pioneering fashion       business incubator the Centre for Fashion Enterprise, as well as       the Trampery, the London-based       social enterprise founded in 2009 that encourages entrepreneurship,       creativity and innovation.
Two       BBC Radio 4 programmes have drawn extensively on her research on the       creative industries in the       UK: a dedicated edition of Thinking Allowed presented by Laurie Taylor       (January 2005) and a three-part       series on the History of the British Art School presented by Jarvis Cocker       in 2008 (`The Art of       Pop', produced by Bob Dickinson).
McRobbie also worked closely with NESTA during the 2000s, in particular       with Si&#226;n Prime who       implemented many of her proposals with dozens of fashion designers.
Subsequently Prime joined       the Goldsmiths Institute of Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship, and       they have together been       the driving force behind a recently-launched MA in Fashion, which       brings a critical perspective to       debate with creative practitioners &#8212; designers, writers, thinkers and       curators &#8212; who actively seek to       challenge traditional boundaries.
In this way education and research       directly come to bear on       professional practice.
In Germany and Austria     McRobbie's fashion recommendations have been published in Europe and       translated into German,       appearing in a number of journals, newspapers and books.
They have helped       to shape some of       the start-ups mentioned below.
In Berlin in particular since 2008, her       research fed into discussions       about how under-utilised city spaces (`Zwischennutzungen') could be turned       into fashion start-up       social enterprises, with subsidized rents for `socially worthy' projects.
McRobbie's proposals to       bring together groups of young designers and to encourage more cooperation       with local suppliers       and with pools of available labour with regard to knitting, sewing,       crocheting etc.
have come to       fruition, especially in the Berlin neighbourhood of Neuk&#337;lln.
This       happened because policy       advisors, urban consultants, designers and entrepreneurs themselves were       familiar with her writing       and research, both in English and in translation.
Published in an influential German volume, `"I Was Knitting Away Night       and Day": Die Bedeutung       von Kunst und Handwerk in Modesdesign' [4] became a key text for       policy-makers and fashion       producers in Berlin, influencing the model of co-operative working among       small-scale fashion       designers as a recommended pathway for economic viability.
The article       cited at [3] was also widely       read in English by German urban policy-makers.
Directly influenced by this       work were such       organisations as Inpolis (especially its NEMONA network for       fashion designers and seamstresses)       [8], Common-Works ModeProduktion (providing fashion production       services for 30 Berlin-based       fashion design companies) [9], and the film production company Turanskyj         &amp; Ahlrichs GbR.
In 2010 McRobbie initiated local neighbourhood ethnographic research on       Berlin fashion start-ups,       with particular reference to female self-employment strategies.
Also       important to this research is       the NGO dimension, including ways of working with local migrant women in a       more equitable and       socially engaged way.
In this context she has interviewed and taken part       in deep immersive       observation with fashion designers based at the Common-Works Studio and       the Inpolis/NEMONA       studio in Neuk&#337;lln, as well as with the sewing workshop or `co-sewing       space' NadelWald.
The       Managing Director of Common-Works has used this research to extend the       feminist social       enterprise outreach dimension of the company [9], while the CEO of Inpolis       is committed to a       collaboration that reflects the social egalitarian model of fashion       co-working [8, described in 6].
Such work has led to McRobbie being invited to join the Neuk&#246;lln       Neighbourhood Fashion Forum.
In June 2012 McRobbie organised, hosted and introduced in German a       tailor-made event entitled       Fashion Matters Berlin.
Held at the September Gallery in Kreuzberg with       Goldsmiths support, it       brought McRobbie into contact with designers and labels such as Issever       Bahri and Augustin       Teboul as well as with influential journalists such as Maria Exner, the       fashion editor of the major       German newspaper Die Zeit, and the German correspondent for Women's         Wear Daily [10].
McRobbie's articles listed above were highly influential on the Director       of Espace-Surplus Le Grand       Berlin, and they helped shape the contours of the cultural enterprise and       feminist organisation       entitled `f******* &#8212; Towards New Perspectives on Feminism'       [11].
One result of the collaboration       was a major three-day gallery event of this name, held in February 2013 at       n.b.k.
(Neuer Berliner       Kunstverein), which received extensive publicity in Frankfurter         Allgemeine Zeitung and elsewhere       [12].
An ongoing joint commitment is to the AHRC CREAte Programme (Fashion       IP workstream),       drawing on the collaborator's legal expertise in Berlin.
The workstream       was launched on 24 June       2013 with a symposium entitled `Fashion Matters in Times of Globalisation       and Digitalisation: City       Spaces, Designers, Producers, Supply Chains, Technology and IP' [13].
Leading out of these initiatives on a more permanent basis is a new       network &#8212; Fashion Matters       Berlin &#8212; which McRobbie initiated in 2013.
This is already developing       several additional research       and policy strands, alongside her involvement in the AHRC CREAte       programme.
In addition, she       has regularly taken part in fashion policy and creative start-up       roundtables in Munich and Vienna.
NGOs in Germany and Italy     McRobbie has collaborated since the early 1990s with EU-funded       feminist/green NGOs, including       the long established Life e.V.
in Berlin and BBJ Germany/Italy       Consultancy Services (now share.it)       in Germany and Italy &#8212; both not-for-profits founded in 1988, specialising       in vocational training and       employment support for young people and under-40s across Europe.
More       recently McRobbie has       connected these two organisations with the new generation of fashion and       creative start-ups in       Berlin and Milan; she is currently on the Scientific Advisory Board of       share-it [14, 15].
She has again widened the net of this research to include `creative       multi-taskers' and this has led       to her work being influential at municipal level in Sicily and in Umbria.
The article listed at [3]       informed and helped to shape the design and implementation of two EU       Social Fund Projects with       field-work programmes in Italy and Germany.
Both projects aimed at       enhancing the employability       of young people through media and arts training with `insertion' or paid       internships in small media       and cultural enterprises.
McRobbie played a key role in the four-year EU       Social Fund STEP       programme in Palermo: Territorial School for Emergent Artists, which       mentored 40 youngsters in       Palermo into new creative work [16].
She also worked closely with young       artists and designers who       participated in the BEKORE EU Vocational Mobility Project in Berlin and       Spoleto in 2009-2012,       presenting a report at the final conference for the project in Berlin       [17].
