     Drawing upon extensive technical knowledge and intellectual property,       QinetiQ provides technical       support, training, test and evaluation, and know-how to customers in the       defence, aerospace, and       security markets primarily in the United Kingdom and North America.
Innovation, deep domain       knowledge, rigorous independent thinking and technical expertise underpin       QinetiQ's success and       mirror the values of the ASPG.
The company employs over 10,000 people       worldwide and is one of       the UK's largest research and technology organisations and recognized as a       world leader in       defence and security.
Much of QinetiQ's business is conducted with high       levels of confidentiality       therefore it is not possible to provide exact names of customers           and details of products in           which the new signal processing solutions have been or will be           exploited.
Since July 2007 Professor Chambers as the first QinetiQ Visiting Fellow       (awarded for his previous       seven years of successful interaction with QinetiQ) and the Head of the       ASPG at Loughborough       University, has worked closely with engineers and scientists from QinetiQ,       Malvern, to ensure they       have awareness and understanding of the latest advances in the field.
His       role as a Senior Area       Editor (unique in the UK) for IEEE Trans.
Signal Processing, the world's       leading academic journal       in signal processing, demonstrates his international technical standing.
The novel research findings developed by Professors Chambers and       Lambotharan, also since July       2007, within the ASPG at Loughborough University have provided new       capability to the technical       staff at QinetiQ Malvern which have allowed them to advance the       state-of-the-art in signal       processing solutions for the networked battlespace [5.1].
This       activity has also benefitted the       training of research students and postdoctoral assistants at Loughborough       University, as listed in       Section 3, who have since taken up positions in industry in the UK.
This interaction underpinned the formulation of the Loughborough, Surrey,       Strathclyde, and Cardiff       (LSSC) Consortium bid, led by Professor Chambers, to the EPSRC/Dstl Call,       December 2011, on       "Signal Processing in the Networked Battlespace".
This work is nationally       important as it ensures       that EPSRC's target to grow the UK's capability in digital signal       processing and to attain an       intelligent information infrastructure are met; and is helping to ensure       the Defence Technology       Strategy for the 21st Century is implemented [5.2].
The       impact of the work of the LSSC Consortium       can also be judged by the breadth of the six industrial partners spanning       international companies       to SMEs: QinetiQ, Thales, Selex-Galileo, Texas-Instrument, Steepest Ascent       and PrismTech.
This       consortium was one of the two successful consortia, the other is from       Edinburgh and Herriot Watt       Universities, awarded ahead of other consortia from across the UK       including one led by Imperial       College with partners from Bristol, Cambridge and UCL.
In summary, the ASPG at Loughborough University has significantly changed       the awareness and       understanding of the technical staff at QinetiQ, Malvern, in relation to       the very latest signal       processing techniques for Polynomial Matrix Decompositions [3.1];       Game Theoretic Methods [3.2]       and Cooperative Communications and Beamforming [3.3, 3.4].
This       transfer of technical skills has       helped QinetiQ, Malvern, to develop state-of-the-art products and       solutions for the networked       battlespace with unique performance advantage.
The reach of this impact is       being extended to       other industrial organisations through the LSSC consortium and Dstl.
