     Our research has directly impacted on the engagement of stakeholders,       including the general public, in the development of frameworks and data       integration tools.
These tools have been applied across local government       to improve public engagement, integrate new scientific knowledge to ensure       planning decisions are more robust, and thus lead to improvements in the       quality of life at the community level.
Specifically:     Adoption of a framework The Western Isles, (Scotland) local authority and       Hammerfest (Norway) municipality adopted a framework developed by Gagnon       to provide a vulnerability assessment of local coastal communities to       climate change (4.1, 4.2).
Public engagement: Both Professor Hursthouse and Dr Gagnon have sustained       dissemination of research-informed decision-making, contributing to       bottom-up community engagement.
This forms a critical feedback to       framework and decision support tool development.
Dr Gagnon debated the       likely impact of climate change on coastal communities at a series of       meetings in October and November 2009 and May 2011 in Benbecula, Stornoway       and South Uist, with OXFAM and Local Authority participation (4.1 and       4.2).
Hursthouse has sustained long term public engagement with the debate       on risk assessment based land management.
This has included invited       participation community council meetings and national TV interviews (BBC       News) along with wider public discussions of land use and soil management       through key stakeholder meetings.
[http://www.brownfieldbriefing.com/news/60-second-interview-professor-andrew-hursthouse].
The latest example of our engagement involves the innovative options for       re use of brownfield sites through a project involving local School groups       (Grow wild: Big Lottery/Kew Gardens &#163;100,000 award, First Flagship       Project).
Engaging the Stakeholder Community     a.
The decision-support tool developed by Hursthouse and colleagues (3.1)       was used by a leading environmental policy NGO (National Society for Clean       Air &amp; Environmental Protection/EPUK now EP-S) to gauge regulator       opinion on the implementation of the new statutory contaminated land       regime.
High (&gt;90%) response, identified discrete limitations in policy       and guidance and was used to develop a training programme for local       authority officers by the NGO (~&#163;20,000 of funded training reaching       &gt;100 local authority officers).
This activity supported bottom up       development of a NGO policy forum (http://www.ep-scotland.org.uk/policy-focus/land-quality/)       (4.5)     b.
Professor Hursthouse and colleagues in an EU expert group evaluated       emerging EU soil policy principles for national consideration (3.2) and he       was subsequently invited to Chair the group that consolidated the expert       review, for the Soil Framework for Scotland 2009 report (4.6) which was       used in the formulation of government strategic activities.
Work directed       by Hursthouse, engaging with 19 other contaminated land regulators,       developed support to land developers through the publication of an       advisory leaflet (4.7)     Influence of research in the management of environmental risk     a.
Using the integrated vulnerability assessment tool, the Western Isles       local authority has changed its approach to risk management and the       identification of adaptation strategies (Gagnon) and adopted the outcomes       of the community consultations and knowledge exchange activities.
It has       been followed up by the creation of a guidebook for coastal       decision-makers wishing to assess their vulnerability to climate change.
This provides a route through the process of adaptation using a       participatory approach thereby making the outcomes of this research       relevant beyond the geographical region where it was conducted to other       coastal communities around the world facing similar threats from climate       change and sea level rise.
Furthermore, the research (3.3) resulted in the       application of a decision-support tool and the formation of coastal       resilience groups in the Outer Hebrides and pilot sites in the Republic of       Ireland, which bring together various decision-makers from local       government and public bodies (e.g.
in Scotland: Scottish Environmental       Protection Agency (SEPA) and Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH)) to identify       bottom-up adaptation ideas to the risks identified as a result of       integrated vulnerability assessments (4.8).
b.
The Highland Council applied the decision support tool (3.1) to       combine spatial environmental information in the evaluation of over 5,000       locations across a region of &gt;26,000 km2, allowing the local authority       to make a more cost effective assessment of land contamination and       resource prioritisation (4.9).
The tool was subsequently extended within       Inverclyde Council to incorporate multidisciplinary factors in the       decision making (4.10).
This extension allowed a proportionate response to       be developed integrating human health risk assessment and socio-economic       considerations where restrictions on funding existed.
It sustained       community use of an area of land saving the local authority an estimated       &gt;&#163;130,000.
The tool allowed planning decision makers to balance costs       against other factors as well as providing a visual output for clear       communication in potentially contentious situations.
