     HIFI's impact derives from its reputation for high-quality,       debate-setting research that can be applied to develop policy frameworks,       protocols, regulations and guidance documents for freshwater fisheries and       associated aquatic environments.
This record has attracted commissions       from governments and national and trans-national organisations working       across national, European and global frameworks.
This gives HIFI's impact       international reach and significance.
1) HIFI's research on alien invasive fishes and their presence (and       threatened spread) in the European Union has shaped European Regulations       on alien fish species.
As noted earlier, HIFI's reputation for research on       fish stock enhancement strategies led to the award of the EU-funded       IMPASSE project to research the use, movement and risks of alien fish       species in Europe.
This project was also intended to support the drafting       of European Council Regulation 708/2007 that regulated the use of alien       fish species in aquaculture.
IMPASSE developed risk assessment protocols for alien fish species and       produced guidance on how to regulate the movements of alien fish and       contingency measures in case of problems [1].
It also recommended the use       of `closed facilities' to reduce risk of escape to acceptable levels.
The       IMPASSE report provided evidence to help revise the regulation adopted by       the Council of the European Union on 2 June 2010; the revision passed into       European law on 4 November 2010 [2].
The associated outcomes have economic       implications for the growth of aquaculture in Europe; they also protect       European ecosystems from invasive species.
HIFI's role in establishing legislation on alien species meant that when       the EU needed a policy on genetically modified fishes, HIFI were       approached and therefore also shaped European Policy on the use, the       presence, and the potential threats of these controversial animals.
HIFI were commissioned by the European Food Safety Authority (and its       subsidiary Panel on Genetically Modified Organisms) to produce guidance       documents for the Environmental Risk Assessment of genetically modified       fishes (as both food and feed), for any related environmental safety       issues, and for connected animal health and welfare matters.
The report       was published on 27 May 2010 [3] and it included:     - Criteria to assess the impact of genetically modified fishes in the EU       area     - Guidelines to formulate methodologies, which can assess the impact of       these fishes     This HIFI report therefore outlined how European policy should       conceptualise and quantify the threats from genetically modified fish.
Notably, it recommended that genetically modified fishes should be avoided       throughout aquaculture developments across Europe.
This document was used directly as the basis of EU guidance documents       published in January 2012 by the `Panel on Genetically Modified Organisms'       of the European Food Safety Authority [4].
This `scientific opinion' was endorsed on 18 April 2012 by the same       European Food Safety Authority `Panel on Genetically Modified Organisms'.
After a consultation period with stakeholders from 21 June to 31 August       2012, a technical report was released [5] and these protocols were       accepted.
The European Food Safety Authority published the final       `scientific opinion', which will steer these regulations into European law       [6].
Beneficiaries include the freshwater fisheries sector, that now has       regulations to protect their stocks and preserve consumer confidence.
European ecosystems now protected from GM-fishes and invasive species also       benefit.
Related research by HIFI continues in other world regions &#8212;       including a 2011 study commissioned by the UN Food and Agriculture       Organisation to assess the impacts of alien aquatic species in Central       Asia and the Caucasus and to prepare guidelines for managing species       introductions and stocking [7].
2) HIFI's second example originates from its reputation established by       DEFRA-funded research to assess the impact of cormorants on UK fish stocks       (Feltham, Cowx et al.
1999).
As previously noted, the European       Parliament's Committee on Fisheries subsequently commissioned Cowx to       produce a global impact statement on the effects of cormorants on       fisheries in Europe.
This report was published in January 2013 [8].
Cowx was approached to offer an opinion on the European Parliament's 2008       decision (based on the Kindermann report) to adopt a cormorant management       strategy of extensive culling.
The need for cormorant management is based       on the high level of stock depredation suffered by recreational and       commercial fisheries due to the expanding cormorant populations on       European inland waters (currently 250,000+ breeding pairs).
The European       Parliament considered the economic impacts of these losses to be       unacceptable given the economic importance of recreational fisheries and       the aquaculture sector.
But rather than large-scale culling, Cowx's 2013       HIFI report recommended more locally-variegated management strategies for       cormorant control including deterrents, egg-oiling and limited, localized       culls.
Cowx presented the report and recommendations to the European Parliament       on 21 March 2013 [9].
The parliament adopted the report [10] to replace       the 2008 policy of large scale culling with Cowx's recommendations, that       address cormorant populations more appropriately.
This approach will also       be more economically feasible and less problematic for public opinion.
HIFI research therefore impacted upon EU policy directly.
These strategies       have also impacted upon national angling organizations, like the Angling       Trust in England and Wales, who also adopted this approach.
The beneficiaries are the fisheries managers, who can now defend their       stocks against cormorants.
This is significant because the European       freshwater fisheries sector is worth over &#8364;6 billion per annum and employs       over 50,000 people.
Fisheries help to sustain healthy environments and       ecosystems and are a sizeable recreational sector.
Bird and nature       conservation movements have also welcomed this revised legislation.
This       research thus delivered impact of substantial significance and       considerable international reach.
Further recognition of the excellence of this research impact is       highlighted by the following awards:     - 2008 American Fisheries Society Award to Cowx: `for outstanding       contribution to international inland fisheries management'.
This is the       first time this award has been made outside of North America in the 110       year history of the American Fisheries Society.
- 2012 Honorary Doctor of Science to Cowx: `for contributions to inland       fisheries', Michigan State University, USA; Cowx also delivers the Rachael       Carson Memorial Lecture, Michigan State.
- 2012 International Fisheries Science Prize to Cowx: in honour of `life       time contribution to fisheries science and conservation' (awarded every       four years by the World Council of Fisheries Societies).
These awards demonstrate the quality and esteem of HIFI research and its       international recognition.
Further, this international profile is       demonstrated by HIFI's current projects, which include assessing the       rehabilitation of fisheries of the Shatt-el-Arab, Iraq, for the UN Food       and Agriculture Organisation.
Other applied research in the REF period       include a Code of Practice for Recreational Fisheries (for the European       Inland Fisheries Advisory Commission, UN FAO), and a fisheries management       plan for Kafue Flats, Zambia (for the European Union).
These projects       likewise demonstrate the significance and reach of research that shapes       fisheries legislation, regulations and governance across an international       range of contexts.
