     The filled polymeric material manufacturing process developed at Bradford       has enabled the introduction of a product that has revolutionised the way       root canal treatments are performed (a).
The manufacturing techniques       pioneered at Bradford are today used to manufacture more than 150,000       points annually using the moulding facilities at the University and the       production facility in Sheffield.
These are used by orthodontists in the       UK and the Netherlands and have received excellent feedback (see       testimonials on DRFP's website) (b).
The technology has also gained FDA       approval in the US.
This collaborative research work enabled DRFP to       launch its product in 2007 and the company has since grown from three       people in 2006 to 12 employees in 2013 based at a dedicated manufacturing       facility in Sheffield where the points are coated, packaged and shipped to       distributers in the UK, Holland and the USA (c).
There are several reasons why this product has proved so popular: it is       much simpler to use than conventional techniques; gives quick,       long-lasting results; and gives a better outcome for the patients.
In 2007       a three-year clinical trial with annual check-ups for patients was started       using SmartPoint.
Informal feedback based on cases that have been       monitored for in excess of three years has indicated the clinical results       are good with good healing and no complications (c).
A user panel of       approximately 20 dentists has been set up to provide feedback on DRFP       products.
To date, there have been over 1,200 cases documented with 14       failures (retreatment required).
This failure rate of approximately 1%       compares favourably with typical retreatment/failure rates taken from the       literature of 11-30% for endodontic procedures over a 5 year period.
The       wide variation in the figures can be attributed to the broad range of       studies which consider a variety of problems to be treated and conditions       of the tooth.
Informal feedback from various sources (customers, user       panel members, and the clinical trial) (d,e) indicates that patients       report low levels of post-operative pain, which was attributed to a less       "aggressive" procedure and the good healing attributes of the product.
No       force is required to compact the obturation point into the prepared canal,       which can cause stress inside the tooth.
Research studies completed by       dentists have also validated the functionality (f) and biocompatibility       (g) of the SmartPoint solution.
The product now has a history of       use over five years with proven benefits as demonstrated in leading       dentistry journals, and this product is now in increasing demand in a       highly risk-averse marketplace.
There has been an increasing demand for the product from the dental       community in mainland Europe and UK and the product range has expanded       since SmartPoint first hit the market in 2008.
The products have       been refined in this period and now include a radio-opaque coating in       addition to the core as a response to the requests of practitioners.
The       technology has also won numerous awards (h,i,j).
The collaborative work is now concentrating on process scale-up due to       recent FDA approval opening up the North American marketplace.
Critical to       this goal will be a significant increase in core output utilizing       multi-cavity tooling with improved process repeatability and better       product quality with tighter tolerances.
The company continues to work       with the University to develop new solutions to the scale up requirement       including automated inspection and handling systems to increase quality       and throughput.
In addition, company employees are working in the University to manage       their own manufacturing process, which is the final stage in the knowledge       transfer process.
They can configure, run and troubleshoot the       manufacturing process with minimal support required and implement their       own quality control procedures on site, which has seen significant       improvement in product yield throughout the process chain.
This allows       Bradford University staff more time to spend developing new innovations to       improve quality and reduce costs.
In addition, the methods and processes developed during this work have       enabled the Centre for Polymer Micro and Nano Technology at the University       to explore further applications of these technologies and build bespoke       solutions for a range of other companies wishing to develop new       micro-injection moulded products.
This work has provided significant value       as a key case study to showcase our ability to deliver research projects       that are near-market and, since this project, we have delivered over 20       new research and development projects with UK-based industrial Partners as       a direct result of the knowledge gained during this process.
This work has       enabled the securing of Industrial R&amp;D-focussed, grant-funded       opportunities.
Key examples include the ERDF-funded Nanofactory       programme which included Bradford in a consortium of six Yorkshire-based       Universities that has assisted over 100 small and medium enterprises in       the region, and the EU FP7 COTECH programme, which was a highly successful       25-partner programme (of which Bradford was a major RTD contributor) that       saw the creation of three key technology platforms and eight industrial       prototypes (k).
The underpinning research on polymers and the knowledge base available at       Bradford has been key to developing and manufacturing the SmartPoint       device.
This device has brought benefits in terms of improved endodontic       treatments worldwide.
This project has also enabled the Centre to build an       effective R&amp;D platform for completion of a range of other programmes       with Industrial partners.
