     The IECS research fed directly into the UK response to the infraction       proceedings and it       contributed significantly to the UK's defence against the case [3].
If the       infraction proceedings had       been upheld, specific estuaries (including the Humber) would be designated       as `Sensitive Areas       (Eutrophic)' under the European Union's Urban Waste-water Treatment       Directive (UWWTD).
In       extreme circumstances EC fines can total &#8364;256m per annum, so avoiding       these costs gives this       research impact of national significance [1].
This result also prevented       the need for major       investment in new tertiary treatment to remove nutrients from estuaries       and catchments (a more       likely EC measure).
Estimates suggest that this would require huge       investment (the EA estimate is       known, but they wish to keep this confidential) [3].
For the Humber       catchment, these costs would       be funded by Anglian, Yorkshire and Severn-Trent Water plcs and,       ultimately, by consumers.
Again, the savings to the UK of avoiding these additional costs renders       this impact of national       significance.
In addition, the robust nature of the IECS research highlighted the       inadequacy of the science and       evidence that underpinned the European Commission's case [2].
By       demonstrating the importance       of producing excellent, rigorous site-specific research, the Humber       Infraction Project also       established the importance of thorough, geographically-sensitive       approaches in future EC       infraction proceedings.
This gives this research some international reach.
On 17 August 2007, the European Commission brought its case against the       UK Government for       failing to adhere to European Council Directive 91/271/EEC of 21 May 1991       concerning urban       waste water treatment and the risk of eutrophication in vulnerable       estuaries [2: 1, 59].
Between       1992 and 1997 the UK Government made three responses to the EC Directive       [2: 12].
In turn, the       European Commission appointed `Environmental Resources Management (UK)'       (ERM)       consultancy to report on these vulnerable areas (they reported in March       1999) [2: 13].
Based on this ERM report, the Commission notified the UK (on 4 November       1999) that some       estuaries showed signs of eutrophication and should have been designated       `Sensitive Areas'       under the EC Directive; they included the Humber, the Wash, the Outer       Thames Estuary,       Southampton Water and the North East Irish Sea [2: 14].
The UK defence involved the EA asking IECS to obtain rigorous and       scientifically and legally       defensible evidence for the Humber estuary that could address the European       Commission's       assertions [3].
The allegation of possible eutrophication in the Humber       was based upon evidence       collated by the ERM consultancy that assumed the CASI aerial surveys       identified dense, green       algal growth in the Humber which indicated an adverse, eutrophic impact in       the estuary [3].
The Environment Agency had doubts about the quality of their evidence and       its capacity to sustain       a robust defence against the infraction proceedings.
Earlier EA / Natural       England studies on       possible eutrophication in the Humber (2005-2008) were inconclusive.
In       2005 the EA had some       evidence that diatoms were the main organisms on the Humber intertidal       sediments, but it required       better and more defensible evidence &#8212; especially with the onus on the UK       to demonstrate no signs       of eutrophication [2].
The EA decided that they needed more quantitative       evidence about the algae       and nuisance species in the Humber to defend the case.
They therefore       sought additional       evidence through research collaboration with IECS [3].
Thanks to Elliott's earlier research on the Humber's organic and nutrient       load (Boyes and Elliott       2006), plus its international reputation, IECS was invited to lead,       organise and deliver the Humber       Infraction Project for the EA.
The research outlined in section 2 was       undertaken and the results       (including state of the art scientific reviews; ground-truthing data; CASI       images and mapping;       multivariate statistical analyses; sediment, macroalgae and diatom       sampling and mapping) were       embedded in the EA/Defra submissions to the European Commission [3].
This new, robust evidence challenged the EU's previous assumptions about       the potential eutrophic       status of the Humber and other UK estuaries.
The research was therefore       scrutinised by the EU       Joint Research Centre.
The JRC concluded that there was now sufficient       evidence of significant       strength to reject allegations that the Humber estuary was eutrophic (or       was likely to become so).
The European Court of Justice therefore ruled in favour of the UK       Government on 9th December       2009 and removed the infraction proceedings against the Humber [2: 117].
The Court accepted the       new evidence and rejected the earlier analysis by the EC and ERM       Consultancy as being based       on insufficiently rigorous science [2: 88-89].
It also noted that the       European Commission failed to       demonstrate eutrophication on two criteria from four [2: 117].
The EA       submission also resulted in       similar outcomes for the proceedings levied against the Thames estuary,       Southampton Water,       Liverpool Bay and the Wash [2].
Beneficiaries:     European Commission fines were not issued against the UK and costly       additional sewage       monitoring and treatment systems in the catchments feeding these estuaries       were not required.
The UK was even awarded its legal costs against the European Commission       [2: 358].
In addition,       the regional sewerage and water companies saved the major costs of       nutrient removal throughout       the Humber catchment [3].
Due to the scale of this catchment, these costs       would have been very       sizeable for the region and the country.
By extension, there were other beneficiaries:     - customers and shareholders of the sewerage and water companies, to whom       the costs would       have been passed [3];     - Environment Agency / Natural England, who avoided additional, costly       monitoring and       remedial action to combat the effects of eutrophication [3];     - the public, who benefit from the continued amenity values of estuaries       (it is argued that the       social and economic value of eutrophic estuaries decrease) (Herring et al.
2010);     - wider UK and European local, national and European authorities: because       evidence from this       case suggests that effective diagnosis of eutrophication can preclude the       requirement for       costly treatment and court cases.
This applied research also fed into new conceptual paradigms of estuarine       functioning which is       influencing assessments of estuarine systems worldwide (Borja et al.
2010;       Elliott and       Whitfield 2011; Hering et al.
2010).
