     There are 125 million contact lens wearers worldwide and potentially all       are at risk of Acanthamoeba infection and therefore this research       has a global impact.
Following publication of her research findings on the Acanthamoeba       keratitis in 2008, Dr Henriquez actively engaged in dialogue with the       commercial arm of the world famous Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation       Trust, Moorfields Pharmaceuticals.
The company specialises in the       manufacture and development of sterile liquid products and Ophthalmic       Specials products.
Moorfields agreed to conduct a survey amongst       Ophthalmologists, which confirmed the unanimous agreement that an       effective pharmaceutical product was required to treat Acanthamoeba       infection.
The impact of this research has been in 4 areas:     a) Commercialisation and Industry Impacts: Through       publication of patents and participation in industry-focused conferences,       Dr Henriquez has been involved in discussions with several eye care       companies.
To date, non-disclosure agreements (NDA) have been signed by 3       separate companies: Boots Technical Centre for Boots Opticians, which has       almost 700 UK ophthalmic and dispensing optician stores and circa 5000       staff; Viopti, which is a small to medium sized enterprise (SME),       registered as a company in May 2009; Sauflon Pharmaceuticals Ltd, a global       manufacturer of contact lenses and solutions, offering the widest range of       contact lenses and aftercare products anywhere in the world.
Sauflon's       high-quality contact lenses and aftercare products reach Opticians,       Optometrists, Eye Doctors and Eye Care Professionals in over fifty       countries.
b) Patents Awarded: Dr Henriquez's research has resulted in       Patent awards for both Antimicrobial and Antiprotozoal compounds (See       Section 5.1).
The patents protect the use of the inhibitory compounds       glyphosate and 3-amino-triazole that block the shikimate pathway and       histidine biosynthesis pathway in Acanthamoeba, respectively.
Patents were awarded in Europe and in the patent covering the shikimate       pathway has also been awarded in the USA.
c) Sauflon, who have signed a NDA, have seen the patent and have already       tested the shikimate pathway inhibitor, glyphosate, with their contact       lens solution "All-In-One Light".
This resulted in an increased efficiency       of this contact lens solution to eliminate Acanthamoeba       trophozoites from contact lenses.
Investigations are now focusing on       elimination of the highly resistant cyst form within 6 hours.
d) British Contact Lens Association new warning labels on           contact lens cases: In September 2012, Dr Henriquez organised       the event `Microbes in contact lens' at the British Science Festival in       order to highlight the dangers of contact lens negligence and poor care       and that finding effective medicines for Acanthamoeba keratitis is       a considerable challenge as they are eukaryotic (as are humans) and thus       many treatments are toxic to humans.
This research into finding new       protective measures and treatments, through public engagement and media       discussion and consequent correspondence (Section 5), encouraged an       artist/patient to design dedicated warning labels for contact lens       solution boxes and cases to inform users to avoid water exposure of their       contact lenses (Section 5).
These `no water' sticker labels have been       endorsed by the British Contact Lens Association (Section 5.1).
The BCLA       are distributing these labels to their members and the stickers are also       available to purchase.
Dr Henriquez has received letters and emails from       members of the public endorsing the research, or seeking information and       advice on contact lens handling and care (Section 5.3).
This is evidence       of changing behaviour and perception in the end user of their own use of       contact lenses and thus significant impact on improving public health.
e) In 2012 Dr Henriquez received a Scottish Funding Council Innovation       Voucher Scheme award to work with the microbiological biocide testing       company, Blutest.
Currently, there is no international standard (ISO)       specifically detailing procedure to assess the efficacy of       biocides/contact lenses solutions against Acanthamoeba.
Therefore,       the aim of this project was to develop a rapid test to assess biocides on       highly resistant protozoan cysts.
Cysts are notoriously difficult to test       since they have extremely low metabolic activity and do not replicate.
The       test, which is based on monitoring excystation by a colourimetric assay,       has been validated through testing several biocides and can now be used to       evaluate the efficacy of biocides, which is already of commercial impact       for Blutest (See Section 5.1).
2.
Media Article Impacts: Relevant ophthalmic professional bodies       have sought interviews with Dr Henriquez, with resulting articles in       specialist industrial journals in Ophthalmology, such as `Optician'       magazine, a key reference for Optician practitioners.
There has also been       significant public dissemination through national and international media       portals, including The Daily Telegraph, The Daily Mail, MSN and yahoo       news.
(See Section 5.2).
The public have responded to these articles       through online discussions, some highlighting their own experiences with       the disease and some calling for more awareness of this pathogen.
