     Social and Cultural Impacts: Angels of Anarchy attracted       funding from the Regional       Development Agency (RDA) and all of the visitor targets set by the agency       were met, including       total visitor figures.
According to Manchester Art Gallery's report,       Angels of Anarchy has received       "unprecedented media coverage" (Manchester Art Gallery, RDA report) [A],       hitting the gallery's       target of 25 national and international major media features (broadcast       and printed press).
It       achieved a national printed press coverage at an estimated advertising       equivalent value of over       &#163;600,000.
The coverage included double-page reviews in The Observer , The       Saturday Times and       a 5* review in The Guardian http://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2009/sep/25/angels-of-anarchy-review,       as well as coverage in international broadsheets such as the Italian La       Republica,       Portuguese Publica, Greek Ethnos and the Swiss Neue Zuercher Zeitung       http://www.nzz.ch/aktuell/feuilleton/uebersicht/engel-in-eigene-probleme-verstrickt-1.4087042       [Full         list of reviews at D].
Major features focusing on individual artists were also published by The       Independent and Stella       magazine, and BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour broadcast an interview with Dr       Allmer and Jeanette       Winterson [B].
Specialist art and design publications, women's       glossy lifestyle magazines (such as       Portuguese, Japanese and Greek Vogue, Grazia, Marie Claire) and weekly       current affairs       publications (The Wall Street Journal and New Australian Financial Review)       have all profiled the       exhibition as a major cultural event.
The exhibition also had, for       Manchester Art Gallery,       "unprecedented coverage online by both official media outlets and blogs       and e-zines" (MAG, RDA       report) [A] (over 50 online sites featured previews, reviews or       recommendations of the exhibition).
According to Morris Hargreaves McIntyre research, audience satisfaction       with the exhibition was       100%.
The conversion rate of the exhibition was also significant.
24.5% of       people who visited       Manchester Art Gallery while Angels of Anarchy was on came to see the       exhibition [C].
According       to Manchester Art Gallery's Evaluation Report, "this compares very       favorably with similar group       exhibitions in the region, which are more of a challenge to promote than       exhibitions with one major       artist.
For example Manchester Art Gallery's Art of the Garden (on tour       from Tate Britain) achieved       a 17.9% conversion rate, while Summer of Love (Tate Liverpool's most       successful ever group       show) had only a 12% conversion rate.
The conversion rate is comparable       with [but better than]       that of the Dali exhibition at Tate Liverpool, which had a 24% conversion       rate."
(MAG, RDA report)       [A].
A range of public events were organised to accompany the       exhibition.
Dr Allmer organised       with Manchester Art Gallery a lecture series which was very well attended;       two of the lectures were       fully booked.
She also organised a well-attended Women Surrealist       Filmmakers series, together       with Manchester Art Gallery and Cornerhouse.
In addition, Dr Allmer was       invited by Cornerhouse       to lead an 8-week course on Surrealism and the Everyday (which involved a       special focus on       women Surrealists, and a guided tour of Angels of Anarchy) - the course       was fully booked.
Angels of Anarchy had a dedicated website which is now an online       web-resource on women       surrealists, featuring biographies of artists, links to women surrealist       publications, streamings of the       filmed lecture series, recordings of Antony Penrose's guided tour and       lecture, conversations       between Dr Allmer and the exhibition co-ordinator Fiona Corridan, and       poetry composed in relation       to the exhibition.
During the exhibition, it also featured an online       Surreal poetry `exquisite corpse'       game to which audiences could contribute.
Contributors included Jeanette       Winterson and Guy       Garvey (from the band Elbow), and the total number of contributions was       585.
The Angels of Anarchy dedicated microsite attracted 32,218 visits from 1       September to 10 January       2010.
This increased the regular Manchester Art Gallery website visits by       8,000 visits per month.
The microsite remains online as a legacy of the exhibition, and as an       online resource on women       surrealists.
It still attracts a large number of visits - in February       2010, it had over 2,000 visits.
Similarly, the online streamed `in conversation' event between Dr Allmer       and Jeanette Winterson,       filmed by creativetourist.com, had 640 hits by the end of the exhibition.
To date it has had 6,040       hits (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CHyW1x5N5e4)     Economic Impacts: Angels of Anarchy was a major high profile       international exhibition promoting       Manchester as a cultural centre and providing a focus for the city's       intellectual community and its       institutions.
The exhibition won Manchester Tourism's `Tourism Experience       of the Year, 2010'       award http://www.miriad.mmu.ac.uk/news/item.php?id=357       and helped Manchester Art Gallery to       win the `Large Tourist Attraction of the Year, 2010'.
It was described by       Manchester City Council's       Renaissance Executive Board report as: "one of the most significant       exhibitions staged by the       Gallery.
Praised by visitors, it was also a critical triumph, attracting       glowing reviews in the quality       press and specialist art journals.
Feedback from museum colleagues at the       London nationals has       indicated that it is seen as a major achievement for a non-national to put       on such an intellectually       and curatorially ambitious international historic art exhibition, which       revealed for the first time       women artists' long-term contribution to this traditionally male-dominated       art movement.
They       perceived Angels of Anarchy as raising our game to an international       level."
(Renaissance report)     According to Manchester Art Gallery's Report Angels of Anarchy had a       "significant effect" on       Manchester Art Gallery's tourist numbers (MAG, RDA report) [A].
The exhibition was described in       the Renaissance Executive Board report as "one of the most successful       cultural tourism       campaigns Manchester has run".
In the period of Sept-Dec. 2009 31% of       total visitors were       national tourists, compared to the 2008/9 annual percentage of 24%.
This       equates to over 8,300       national tourist visits for Angels.
A further 1,384 international tourists       attended the exhibition (5% of       the total).
In addition, the exhibition was "a great motivator to women       Patrons", and to the       recruitment of new Gallery Friends memberships (Renaissance report).
Impact on Students and Schools: The project included a close       collaboration with Levenshulme       High School, a Manchester-based inner city school.
Seven students       completing a GCSE Applied       Art course made new artworks in response to the exhibition's key themes,       which were exhibited       under the title Teenangels, adjacent to the Angels of Anarchy exhibition.
In addition 20 It's So       Surreal workshops were held by Manchester Art Gallery's Education team       using the exhibition's       key themes and works from Manchester Art Gallery's permanent collection to       explore Surrealist       concepts and to develop students' "analytical and critical thinking       skills" (Manchester Art Gallery,       RDA report).
In total 2,362 secondary school/college students visited the       exhibition, 1,867 of these       on self-guided visits from groups across the UK.
According to the       Renaissance report, this was       "the highest number of self-guided college visits [Manchester Art Gallery]       has achieved for a       temporary exhibition."
(MAG, RDA report) [A].
Influence upon researcher and gallery relationships: Angels of       Anarchy raised awareness of       the lack of contemporary research on women surrealists, and is now the       forerunner of a range of       upcoming exhibitions on women Surrealists in venues such as LACMA and       Pallant House.
The       significance of the exhibition is evident from a range of international       art journal reviews and       previews of the exhibition in Art Quarterly, Art Review, Arte e Critica,       The Burlington and Design       Week.
Dr Allmer received invitations to give public talks and contribute       to academic events at       institutions and organisations such as the Oxford Women in Politics group,       the Friends of the       National Museum of Women in the Arts, the University of Cambridge, and the       Association of Art       Historians' seminar Don't Ask for the Mona Lisa: Exhibition Collaborations       between Academics and       Art Galleries (University of Leeds).
The exhibition fostered and developed already existing strong links       between MIRIAD and       Manchester Art Gallery, as well as with other collaborating key Manchester       institutions and       organisations such as Manchester City Council and Cornerhouse.
Dr Allmer       and the Gallery were       able to establish strong relationships with these, as well as with a wide       range of national and       international institutions such as Tate Gallery, SFMoma, Kunstmuseum Bern,       Edward James       Foundation and the Lee Miller Foundation.
The national and international       contacts developed       during the Angels of Anarchy project are directly feeding into a number of       projects including Dr       Allmer's external examining for two MPhils (on Surrealism and women       artists) at the University of       Cambridge, and the development of her current book project Lee Miller:       Beyond Frontiers, a       monograph proposal accepted for publication with Manchester University       Press.
Research for this       book involves visiting many of the institutions and developing several of       the contacts established       during the Angels of Anarchy project.
