     Before this research was carried out very little was formally known about       domestic abuse in same sex relationships.
The research has helped to raise       awareness of this hidden problem within national government, among       organisations in the North East and nationally that support victims of       DVA; and within the LGBT community.
Both research projects have been picked up and cited by national       policymakers.
The ESRC end of grant report was cited in both volumes of       the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee Domestic Violence, Forced         Marriage and "Honour"-Based Violence Sixth Report of Session 2007-08,       Volumes I and II [1] as evidence of the extent to which lesbians, bisexual       women and gay men can be victim/survivors of DVA and of the particular       difficulties lesbians and bisexual women face in seeking help.
In The         Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans Public Health Outcomes Framework         Companion Document, (2013) National LGB&amp;T Partnership Public       Health England, Department of Health [2], the work was cited as evidence       of the social problems faced by those living in same sex relationships and       underpins the recommendations focussing on improving services and       responses to victim/survivors of DVA in LGBT relationships.
The research       on MARACs has been cited in the Home Office Research Report 55 Summary         Supporting high-risk victims of domestic violence: a review of         Multi-Agency Risk Assessment Conferences (MARACs) (Steel,       Blakeborough &amp; Nicholas, 2011) [3] to support the findings and       recommendation that those in minority groups, including LGBT       victim/survivors are underrepresented in MARACs and as a source of       recommendations for improving access to MARACs.
The ESRC research continues to contribute to changing practice among DV       support agencies.
Stonewall Housing used findings to secure funding for       the national LGBT DVA forum, a conduit for sharing best practice, research       and improving services for LGBT victim/survivors [4].
Within the North       East, a steering group used the research to apply for the first regional       LGBT DV development worker (funded by Northern Rock Foundation in 2009 for       three years initially, and since, 2013, for a further year until Sept 2014       and thereafter for 2 years dependent on matched funding).
In addition to a       range of activities to raise awareness of LGBT DV in the region, the       development worker has drawn on the research to create and roll out       specific training on the topic for all service providers and a Train the       Trainers course (these have occurred between 2008- currently).
Trainees       for the latter come from a range of agencies across the region committed       to cascading the training within their geographical areas.
Separately, the       MARAC report led to further funding from Sunderland DVA partnership for       specific regional training for mainstream and specialist DVA services       focussed on referring LGBT victim/survivors to MARACs [5].
The ESRC research has also influenced practice on a national level among       agencies that traditionally have only experienced working with       heterosexual victims of DVA, thus increasing the support available to LGBT       victims around the UK.
For example, Co-ordinated Action Against Domestic       Abuse (CAADA) used the research to inform the input on LGBT       victim/survivors on their national training course for IDVAs [6].
In       Cardiff the Dyn Project, part of the Women's Safety Unit, were influenced       by the research to develop a risk assessment check list for gay men       recognising their vulnerability to sexual violence and in their evaluation       recommended further work and research on the risk assessment form in       relation to gay and heterosexual men [7].
The current Community Safety       Commissioner for Brighton and Hove Council, formerly of the Dyn Project       and CAADA said of the research `as it currently stands, it remains one of       the most important yet accessible pieces of work of its kind for these       communities in the UK' [6].
Additionally, Donovan has been invited to       speak at 12 practitioner-led dissemination events, ranging from Scottish       Women's Aid (2009), National Rape Crisis Annual Conference (February       2011), to Cheshire DV Forum Event (April 2010) promoting the issue to much       wider groups of practitioners.
The Learning Development Coordinator of       Scottish Women's Aid said the ESRC research provided a way of seeing       similarities and differences between heterosexual and LGBT domestic       violence and for the agencies providing services to these different groups       `it provided an impetus and a focus to strengthening our work together'       [8].
Great effort has been made to disseminate the research to wide an       audience as possible to raise awareness of DV within LGBT relationships.
The Coordinator of the national LGBT DV Forum identifies the research       `groundbreaking' [4] and it appears on their website &#8212; as it does on the       website of Broken Rainbow the national helpline for LGBT victim/survivors       of DVA (Donovan is on the Board) and Stop Domestic Abuse an LGBT DV       project in Scotland.
The programme manager of the Safety and Justice for       Victims of Abuse at the Northern Rock Foundation said of the research `I       read lots of research &#8212; mostly it just gets filed &#8212; this is a study that I       have kept referring to and kept recommending to others &#8212; good sign' [9].
Since 2007 Donovan has appeared on five radio programmes (including local       radio in Bristol, Women's Hour in June 2008, and Pride Radio in Newcastle,       July 2011) and research has featured in the Sunderland Echo, the Guardian       newspaper and Diva a national monthly magazine for lesbians and bisexual       women.
The research also informed a new play `A Twist of Lemon' exploring       domestic violence in lesbian relationships.
It toured for four weeks in       2008, reaching 2500 audience and workshop participants.
Co-Founder and       Artistic Director of Open Clasp said `this research was invaluable in       supporting our understanding of the issues and its complexities, and       directly informed the script writing process, plus the workshops that were       facilitated after the shows' [10].
