     The impact of the research onto the core competences for genetic       counsellors and specialist genetic nurses led directly to impact on       professional standards and on guidelines and training throughout Europe,       resulting in greater consistency in the quality of genetic healthcare       services for patients.
Genetic counselling involves providing support and information giving for       patients who are affected by or at risk of a genetic condition.
At the       time this project began, provision of genetic counselling in Europe was       patchy.
In the majority of countries it was provided by a range of       professionals, many of whom had no specific educational preparation or       assessed competence for the role.
This had a potential impact on standards       of patient care.
The status of genetic nurses and genetic counsellors was       ill-defined, due to lack of professional regulation; in some cases this       resulted in a reluctance to utilise these professionals within health       services (Skirton, Cordier et al, 2013).
However, with increasing burden       on genetic health services, there was pressure to recruit appropriately       trained practitioners to enable patients to make informed decisions about       genetic tests, to help them to understand the results and the implications       of those results, and to support them to make decisions about future       management of the condition.
Therefore, to achieve safe care for patients,       appropriate education and a system of assessing competence of       practitioners was needed.
A national registration system for genetic counsellors and nurses exists       in the UK (Skirton et al, 2003), but no similar formalised system exists       in other European countries.
However, due to low populations and       practitioner numbers, it is unfeasible to introduce registration systems       in every country.
The European Society of Human Genetics (ESHG) recognised       the need for a concerted approach to genetic nurse and counsellor       accreditation and requested that Skirton lead a new Ad Hoc Committee in       2010 [5] .
This was subsumed in 2012 into the European Board of Medical       Genetics (EBMG), of which Skirton is now the inaugural Chair [https://www.eshg.org/ebmg.0.html].
The Board is responsible for setting up systems of accreditation for       genetic specialists: genetic counsellors, genetic nurses, medical       geneticists and laboratory scientists.
The focus of this case study, the research to establish agreed core       competences in genetics for genetic nurses and counsellors, has been used       to underpin the establishment of genetic counselling and genetic nursing       as recognised professions in Europe.
Initially, the work had an impact on       professional standards, as the competences were used as the basis for the       professional standards of practice and education for the genetic       counselling profession in Europe (Professional and Educational Standards       for Genetic Counsellors, 2010) [Section 5, Item1].
These standards and a       Code of Practice for genetic counsellors were prepared by a Working Group       of experts in 2010 and approved by 156 members of the European network of       genetic nurses and counsellors (Skirton et al, 2010) [Section 3, item 4].
Subsequently they had an impact on education in several ways.
The core       competences were used by a number of European universities to guide the       curriculum of profession specific courses.
The curriculum of the Master       degree programme in genetic counselling at Porto University] was based       entirely on the core competences (evidence available in course       documentation) [Section 5, items 2 and 3].
They were used directly to       inform new Master's degree programmes in genetic counselling established       in Hungary, Greece, Romania and Sweden (evidenced by correspondence with       Skirton) [Section 5, Item 4].
Professor Bela Melegh, Chairman of the       Department of Medical Genetics at P&#233;cs University, Hungary, wrote'       ...there has been a significant progress in the development of the new MSc       course curriculum ...special thanks for providing the core competences for       genetic counsellors'.
In a separate educational initiative, the research       was used by the EBMG to define a core European curriculum for Master's       degree in genetic counselling and genetic nursing.
The President of the       ESHG acknowledged the importance of this work to developing the       profession, writing `our next aim is to achieve European-level recognition       for genetic counsellors/nurses .... the Ad-hoc Committee for Certification       of Genetic Nurses/Counsellors .... have gone deeply into developing core       curricula as a basis for European-level recognition' [Section 5, item 5].
The core curriculum has now been used by the EBMG as the standard for       assessing suitability of European master's degree programmes to train       genetic counsellors and genetic nurses, prior to them being awarded       registration [Section 5, Item 6].
The impact of the work on professional       registration and recognition is evidenced by the establisghment of a       formal European registration system for genetic nurses and genetic       counsellors, which was launched in June, 2013.
Registration is now open to       those practitioners who can demonstrate their competence, and all       practitioners must demonstrate (through submission of a portfolio) that       they fulfil each of the core competences relevant to the profession before       being awarded registration status [Section 5, Item 7].
Joerg Schmidtke       (ESHG Past President) wrote `Skirton was instrumental in this       process...her studies on the core competences were ground-breaking.. for       the development of the profession of genetic counsellors in Europe'       [Section 5, Item 8].
As demonstrated above, the establishment of European core competences for       genetic nurses and genetic counsellors has provided a foundation for the       construction of a stronger, safer profession.
Standards of practice, the       Code of Practice, educational curricula and the registration system have       all emerged from the original set of competences [Section 5, Items 9 and       10].
It is now possible for genetic nurses and counsellors to demonstrate       their competence within a coherent framework across the entire European       genetics community, encompassing 43 countries.
Although the system is at       present voluntary, forty-four genetic nurses and counsellors from 13       countries have indicated they wish to register in the first cohort and the       EBMG is seeking to make registration mandatory through the expected EU       professional qualifications directive.
The impact of this work is       ultimately greater consistency and quality of care for patients seeking       genetic counselling.
