     The research at Loughborough University contributed to an overall       significant reduction in the uncertainty in the photovoltaic market by       transforming research work into international standards.
The impact has       been on reduced uncertainties in calibration and energy yield prediction.
The impact of calibration or power measurements is largely on the retail       value of photovoltaics.
Energy impacts on the operation and finance side       of the business.
Photovoltaics (PV) is a new energy technology, and one of the key factors       slowing down market developments is a perceived risk in the installation       of these technologies.
There are several different technologies competing       for market shares in the field.
The devices are rated at standard test       conditions and one watt at these conditions would be termed watt-peak, Wp.
The overall market size in 2012 is of more than 28 GWp annual installation       in 2012, with an installation cost of slightly under 1&#163;/Wp in the majority       of markets.
Calibration uncertainty is a risk in the value of the overall market.
In       today's market (June 2013), one percent uncertainty equates to 750M$/a       [5.1].
The team (Prof Gottschalg, Dr. Betts) was instrumental in reducing       this as demonstrated e.g.
in the EU project Performance where the       calibration uncertainty of leading test laboratories was reduced from 5%       to less than 2% in standardised power measurements for crystalline silicon       and from more than 10% to about 5% for thin film photovoltaics [5.8].
The       underlying research which contributed to this was carried out during the       Fellowship and the FENRA project and was published amongst other papers in       [3.3, 3.5].
The transfer into standards was achieved by contributing to       the standard development and the participating bi-annual meetings and       appropriate working groups.
Prof Gottschalg led the project team for       IEC60904-5, which is the most accurate method to extract the cell       temperature.
Each degree measurement uncertainty in the temperature       contributes about 0.5% to the calibration uncertainty, the standard is       capable of sub-degree accuracy, while external measurements result in 2-3oC       temperature uncertainty.
Prof Gottschalg was also on the project team for       IEC60904-7, IEC60904-3, IEC60904-9, IEC60904-10 and IEC60891.
Each of       these standards is a crucial element of the calibration process and has       distinct elements linking to work carried out by the team in one of the       research projects.
It can be assumed that at least 95% of the PV modules       produced in the world have been assessed based on the IEC60904 series of       characterisation standards and corrected to standard test conditions using       IEC60891.
Most subsidy schemes require these numbers making the       application of these standards mandatory.
Energy yield uncertainty is a risk on the income generated from an       installation and thus the financial viability of any investment.
The       impact claimed here is the better understanding of uncertainties [3.2,       3.6] and better measurements [3.5] and paving the way for standard       datasets [3.4].
The impact is difficult to quantify, as production and       costs vary for different countries.
There are about 100 GWp installed       world-wide [5.9], and about 2.5 GWp in the UK.
In the UK a system produces       around 850 kWh/kWp and the value of a kWh (FIT + self-consumption/ or       generation credit) around 0.2&#163;.
Thus the impact of one percent uncertainty       in production is well in the order of 34M&#163;/a in the UK alone.
Uncertainty       exists because of a lack of standardised simulations, lack of standardised       environmental inputs and lack of validation of existing methodologies on       statistical numbers of installations.
The work of the team has been utilised in the published standards       IEC61853-1 and the FDIS IEC61853-2.
The work on mapping together with Huld       et al [3.4] is the foundation of the standard datasets (IEC61853-3).
The       transfer of research work has been achieved by Prof Gottschalg being part       of the project teams and a general recognition of the work by the team.
Overall, the work carried out by the team or managed by the team       (PV-Performance, PV-Catapult) have resulted in an enhanced understanding       of the uncertainties involved and a subsequent reduction of the simulation       uncertainty by 2% [5.8].
Key in achieving this impact was participation in the international       standards body of Prof Gottschalg.
Standards are developed by the       International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and CENELEC in Europe,       with collaborations between the two standard bodies.
These normally get       mirrored by national standards, which is the responsibility of the British       Standards Institution (BSi) in the UK.
Prof Gottschalg is active on all       these bodies as confirmed by [5.1-5.6].
These standards have been elemental in the market growth.
Without these       standards enabling the PV deployment, the market would not have grown at       the current speed as other technologies have demonstrated with less       rigorous standards.
In terms of overall market acceleration, the body of       work has been essential to further this sustainable technology.
