     Collectively the body of research has informed the evidence base for       policymakers at regional and national level as well as public discussion       about different forms of social inclusion.
It has also aided individual       partner organisations to secure external funding and to adopt new       practices.
In terms of public discussion, the project examining social class and       higher education has been subject to significant coverage and debate       through popular media.
Key findings were reported by the Times Higher       Education supplement (Attwood, 15/05/08) [1] and members of the project       team have opened these issues up to wider audiences by appearing on       `Thinking Allowed' on BBC Radio 4 (03/03/10) [2].
The findings have also       been used in commentaries on the inequalities within the British education       system, for example, Chakrabortty, (2011) in The Guardian [3].
The       digital inclusion project received regional coverage including a       discussion piece by Sunderland Software City [4], an organisation       supporting the development of the software industry, ICT employment and       digital literacy.
This piece also includes recognition from the Portfolio       Holder for Resources at Sunderland City Council who commented on the value       of the project for judging the success of digital inclusion initiatives in       the city, indicating that it was a `good example of how the digital age is       having an impact across Sunderland."
The social class and higher education project has contributed towards UK       HE policy debates around widening participation.
The interim report of the       `National Strategy for Access and Student Success' published by the       Higher Education Funding Council England (HEFCE) (2013) [5], includes this       research in discussion of student success and senses of belonging in HE.
References also feature in the Department of Business Innovation and       Skills' (BIS) Research Paper `Understanding Higher Education in Further         Education Colleges' (2012) [6] which considers why working class       students may be deterred from specific HE institutions.
In the `Response         to the social mobility commission' from the UK Commission for       Employment and Skills (2008) [7] the research contributes to the evidence       base around unequal experiences of HE and the importance of supporting       students in accessing opportunities at university.
Other policy related       citations include the RSA's examination of the social class gap in       educational achievement (2010) [8] which uses the research to argue for       the need for policy innovation.
On the basis of expertise developed through the digital inclusion       project, Dr. Clayton was commissioned by the Institute of Prospective       Technologies at the European Commission to conduct an `Exhaustive Locality       Mapping' of organisations in Sunderland [9] which facilitate access to       ICT.
This has led to the design of a typology of ICT actors for use in a       major survey mapping of e-Inclusion actors and their impact across Europe       (MIREIA).
This has therefore aided the development of a process led by the       EC, which looks to monitor and improve levels of ICT access across the EU.
The digital inclusion project has also been considered by the UK       Government with regard to digital inclusion policy [10].
A representative       of the Cabinet Office commented on the questions it raises around why       socially excluded communities may not engage successfully with digital       inclusion initiatives.
Following the evaluation work for the Just B Me youth project, the youth       group were able to use the study as evidence of good practice, which       enabled it to attract 3 years funding through the Henry Smith Charity.
It       also helped to foster closer collaboration with the City Council.
According to the Chair of the steering group it "...was influential in         brokering discussions between the city council and the youth project         about meeting the needs of BME young people in the west end of Newcastle."
[11] The evaluation report had a major impact on the approaches of the       Scotswood Area Strategy and its acceptance for a clearer focus on       intercultural youth work.
In relation to the `impact of the cuts' project,       partner organisations have fed back on the manner in which the research       findings helped their ability to be more resourceful in coping with       changes in funding.
One participating group delivering services to Women       and Girls, have used their experiences expressed through the research to       secure funding from the local PCT and to make the case for how resources       in Newcastle are being allocated in light of austerity.
There has also       been an impact on the work of regional third sector agency VONNE who have       indicated that they will now consider the importance of recording and       reporting on the impact of funding cuts on the well being of staff in       local CVS organisations [12].
