     As a direct consequence of the research introduced above knowledge       increased amongst conservation practitioners and industry of the       properties of mortars and roofing slate in historic buildings and also       issues around the impact of climate change on heritage.
This increased       awareness and influenced decision making, through the standardisation and       codification of materials analysis, materials specification and public       policy for research in heritage science, during the period from 1999 until       the present.
The impact was specifically on conservation professionals       (Scottish Lime Centre), a public authority (Historic Scotland), industry       (Lhoist N. America) and a professional body (Applied Petrography Group).
Practitioner facing dissemination and close working relationships with       conservation groups from the late 1990s increased the impact of the       research at the applied end.
The co-founding of the international RILEM       Technical Committee 167COM "Characterisation of Old Mortars" in 1997, by       Prof Bartos, and the hosting of a RILEM conference on historic mortars       (1999, organised by Dr Hughes) resulted in the first specialist       publication on the subject since the early 1980s.
Combined, these       activities impacted on conservation groups, through raised awareness of       state-of-the-art characterisation and materials engineering.
This impact       still resonates, with mortar analysis incorporating petrographic methods,       now a standard methodology for materials characterisation in support of       conservation works (Applied Petrography Group 2008).
This has led to       enhanced knowledge of materials in historic structures, fulfilling       requirements for understanding of fabric established in international       conservation charters.
Petrographic analysis of old mortars (Reference 1) showed that old and       complex materials required specially developed compatible repair       materials.
This drove collaborations with practitioners resulting in the       construction of experimental lime kilns (JREI 1998 &#163;154k, DTI 2002 &#163;71k)       in collaboration with industry (Masons Mortar) and the 3rd       sector (Scottish Lime Centre).
This infrastructure was used for       experiments on traditional burning, and as a result practical skills in       lime production grew amongst these partners.
In addition further impact       was generated through increased knowledge of differing limestone       compositions affecting material properties-choices could be made on the       quality of binder for specific situations.
This knowledge was incorporated       into current practical training for masonry repair (Scottish Lime Centre       statement).
Dr Hughes' research activity contributed directly to the authoritative       guidance published by RILEM committees TC167COM and TC203RHM, published       from 2000 onwards.
These outputs influenced the development of ASTM       C1707(2010) on the specification for mortars for the repair of historic       masonry, C1713 for pozzolanic hydraulic lime and C1489 for lime putty       (Lhoist North America statement).
For C1707 this resulted in a commercial       Pozzolanic Hydraulic Lime, marketed in the USA (Lhoist North America) in       addition to new lime paints and improvements to lime putty supplies and       quality.
The glossary of TC167 was also adopted by CEN/TC 346 Conservation       of Cultural Heritage, as draft standard prEN 16572, thus entering the       group's output into EU standardisation.
The Applied Petrography Group of       the Geological Society (comprised mainly of industry based specialists)       produced a "Code of Practice for Petrographic Examination of Mortars,       Plasters, Renders and Related Materials" in 2008 that referenced both the       work of Dr Hughes (an executive member of the group) and the RILEM       TC167-COM.
The unique knowledge gained through research into the sources and       characteristics of slate materials in historic buildings in Scotland       underpinned the development by Historic Scotland of a policy in favour of       the use of indigenous materials for the conservation of the built heritage       in Scotland.
Slate durability testing and the publication (by Historic       Scotland) of the results have become an exemplar of the sourcing and       meaningful characterisation of new materials for conservation works.
Interdisciplinary assessment of the impacts of climate change on       heritage, pursued through the Science and Heritage Research Cluster       (2009), fed directly into Historic Scotland's institutional priorities for       applied research measures to support adaptation and mitigation strategies.
Traditional Materials also continue to be a thematic priority for Historic       Scotland (Research Strategy 2011-14).
