     Research activities on improving standards in professional practice have       resulted in the developments in health and safety and risk management,       identification of improvements to techniques in cycling measurement and       data collection, improvements in teaching practice and support for       students with disabilities, improvements in procurement practice at Leeds       City College, and improvements in the energy performance of computer       intensive buildings in Higher Education.
Research by Walker and Davies informed the development of a new section       on health and safety in the 2012 BSi BS8210 standard in facilities       maintenance management (see Ref 3.2).
This sets the standard for good       practice in health and safety management in facilities maintenance       management.
The guidance is used by organisations and individuals to       conform to best practice.
Sherratt's health and safety doctoral work supervised by Farrell, and       sponsored by Laing O'Rourke and the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)       (&#163;9, 000 and &#163;8,000.00 respectively) fed into policy development at Laing       O'Rourke, her previous employer, and provided the platform for a recently       awarded contract from Routledge for a practitioner's textbook.
It also led       to her appointment to the CIOB health and safety committee where her work       is influencing the development of new policy in health and safety.
Arewa's doctoral study supervised by Farrell has developed a       classification system for assessment of investment in health and safety       practice.
The research further identified a causal link between health and       safety and company profitability in SMEs.
The potential impact of this       research lies in its findings of the evidence required by the HSE in       justification of its emphasis on investment in health and safety.
Research on improvements to methodologies and techniques for cycling       measurement is being applied by Sustrans who developed and undertook the       Sustainable Transport project in conjunction with the University.
The       research revealed serious problems with data quality, and in particular,       large amounts of missing data.
There are also problems with the       representativeness of count sites.
These findings will lead to improvement       of standards in data collection, both how and where collected.
Sustrans       have recently changed the way they select sites and have implemented a new       data collection and analysis system which will go some way towards dealing       with the problem of missing data.
A new classification system has been       developed and groups of counters have been modelled to provide parameter       estimates for day of the week, month of the year and bank holidays.
There       is potential for these to be developed into expansion factors which could       improve the accuracy of the estimates currently being produced by both       organisations.
New profiles for analysis of data developed through the       research can be applied to existing incomplete data sets to improve       quality of analysis.
Improvements to curriculum in the Built Environment were impacted on by       the Accessible Built Environment Careers for all Students (ABECAS) project       in terms of driving changes to the delivery of programmes from the       recommendations to HEIs.
Improvements to curriculum implemented on the       recommendations of the ABECAS project include:            An audit of programme specifications       Removing barriers from learning outcomes and assessment       Making reasonable adjustments in teaching and learning       Making reasonable adjustments to equipment and laboratories       Making reasonable adjustments to land surveying equipment       Agreeing reasonable adjustments in tutorials with individual students       Ensure options are available at all levels of study       Appointing a built environment tutor as an accessibility specialist       Providing staff development opportunities       Providing electronic learning material in accessible formats          These resulted in a more accessible study environment for students with a       disability, and the highest increase in the numbers of students with       disabilities undertaking built environment programmes in 2006.
The results       were disseminated through the Centre for Education in the Built       Environment (CEBE) and the project webpage http://www.bolton.ac.uk/Subjects/Civil-Engineering-Construction/Research/ABECAS/ABECAS.aspx.
Academic publications were also published and presented at conferences.
Joint research with Leeds City College through a Masters dissertation       (Farrell and Challender) led to improvements in procurement practice at       the host organisation.
The research identified the need to adopt       non-adversarial partnering methods of procurement, and ensure compliance       with key performance indicators.
This is presently implemented through the       procurement of &#163;50M of construction work over the next five years by Leeds       City College (see Ref 3.3).
Impact from the ECCILES project on the University has been focussed on       improvements to our green credentials.
It has included a reduction in       energy consumption, change to programme development process including       equipment planning now included in course development planning and a       change in behaviour towards energy use by staff and students.
These have       resulted in cost savings and improved carbon footprint for the University.
