     Work by LSHTM researchers into TB prevention among people with HIV has       directly informed the evolution of WHO guidelines on IPT since 1998,       including the most recent update in 2011, and updated guidance on TB and       HIV collaborative activities in 2012.
It has also provided evidence for       key stakeholders to adopt IPT.
Drawing directly on Porter's Kenyan and Zambian trials, IPT became one of       the key interventions recommended by WHO in 19985.1 to reduce       the burden of TB in people living with HIV &#8212; yet implementation of IPT was       initially very slow.
In 2005 only 25,000 people living with HIV worldwide       were reported to have received it.
A series of research articles about IPT, including Grant and       Godfrey-Faussett as co-authors, was published in 2010 in AIDS,5.2,         5.3 the International AIDS Society's official journal, made       publicly available, open access, via their website to 16,000 members from       196 countries including clinicians, public health and community       practitioners, policy and programme planners.
The same edition also       contains an opinion piece that heavily draws on LSHTM research.5.4     At the AIDS 2012 Conference in Washington, Grant was invited to present       her research regarding new approaches for TB prevention.5.5       This was reported, among others, by HIV &amp; AIDS Treatment in         Practice, a widely read email newsletter distributed to       practitioners worldwide.5.6     As part of Grant's `Thibela TB' trial (ended 2012), over 24,000 miners       started IPT, the largest number in any clinical trial.
Beyond the health       benefit experienced by those participating in the trial, the results, in       combination with Grant's data from the meta-analyses about drug resistance       after IPT, and on how to screen for active TB prior to IPT, were directly       fed into the revision of WHO guidelines on IPT.
In 2010 Grant and       Godfrey-Faussett were invited to join the WHO Guidelines Group, reviewing       new scientific evidence and contributing LSHTM research into the process       which led to a revision of WHO guidelines.5.7 As a direct       result of LSHTM research, new recommendations included that isoniazid       should be offered to individuals regardless of previous tuberculosis       history,3.2 and that people living with HIV should be screened       for active TB using a tool derived largely from LSHTM research.
The       guidelines also draw directly on the LSHTM research in addressing the       misconceptions that may contribute to the low uptake of isoniazid therapy       &#8212; for example the concern that using isoniazid without other TB       medications promotes drug resistance.
The following year (2011) Godfrey-Faussett was a member of WHO's policy       updating group, responsible for advising WHO concerning collaborative       TB/HIV activities in response to demand from countries for guidance on       actions to decrease the dual burden of TB and HIV.
Drawing on LSHTM       research,3.5 the updated policy emphasised the need to       establish mechanisms for integrated TB and HIV services, preferably at the       same time and location.5.8     Grant's Thibela TB research has been particularly influential in       promoting IPT use in South Africa.
Through work with key collaborators       such as the Aurum Institute, greater stakeholder and political awareness       of the efficacy of IPT was raised.
In 2009, the South African Minister of       Health said of the Thibela TB study: `your research on the community-wide       use of isoniazid has that ground-breaking feel'.5.9 In his       opening speech at the South African AIDS Conference (Durban, June 2013),       the Minister of Health, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, referred directly to LSHTM       research when he said: `This decline [in TB deaths] has been attributed by       researchers to the increased number of HIV positive patients on ARVs as       well as the screening for TB and putting eligible patients on IPT...
This       is very good news!
'5.10
