     Data and new algorithms developed by LSHTM researchers are fundamental to       ongoing global       strategies to combat TB.
As a direct result of their research and case       findings, and their wide       experience in the field and in terms of TB service provision at community       level, LSHTM has been       called upon to advise policy-makers at the highest level.
The impact of LSHTM research is clearly evidenced by current WHO guidance       promoting the       integration of HIV and TB services.
This guidance is based on LSHTM's       ProTEST research where       the case-finding approach was first formally articulated and recommended       in 20045.1 but has had       ongoing impact.
WHO guidelines re-issued in 2012 stated: "The [2004]       policy, which provided       guidance for Member States and other partners on how to address the       HIV-related TB burden, has         been one of the most widely accepted policies issued by both departments       ... more than 170       countries had reported implementing its components by the end of 2010.
"5.2     In 2010-2011, Ayles, Corbett and Grant undertook meta-analyses of data       from LSHTM's African       population surveys in collaboration with WHO and Centres for Disease       Control and Prevention       (CDC) and developed a simplified symptom-based screening algorithm that       relies on the absence       of all four clinical symptoms (current cough, night sweats, fever and       weight loss) to identify PWLH       who have less likelihood of active TB and hence are eligible for isoniazid       preventive therapy to       prevent latent TB infection.
Use of this algorithm is included in WHO's       2010 revision of TB       guidelines.
Wide dissemination through WHO and aimed at health care       workers, policy-makers       and health programme managers working in the field of HIV/AIDS and TB       means the algorithms       now form a standard part of global diagnostic practice.5.3     The impact of LSHTM population surveys is demonstrated through WHO's       promotion, since 2011,       of prevalence surveys modelled after those developed by LSHTM as a key       measure to understand       the progress of TB control throughout the world.
This guidance is included       in the new WHO       handbook published in 2011 designed for TB experts, survey investigators,       researchers and       advisors at national and international level.
WHO says it has ensured the       standardisation of       methods across multiple surveys in more than 20 countries in African,       Eastern Mediterranean,       South-East Asian and Western Pacific regions.
Ayles was lead author of       Chapter 6 which covers,       among other things, the purpose of interviews in a TB prevalence survey       and guidance on how to       design questionnaires.
Findings and methods used in the ZAMSTAR project       are also heavily cited       in the workbook where it is featured as a full case study.
LSHTM       approaches to design, sampling,       microbiology, data collection and analysis are offered as a template for       new studies.5.4     In 2012, Godfrey-Faussett chaired the WHO review of evidence that saw       LSHTM equivocal results       for the impacts of case-finding at a community level incorporated into new       guidelines on systematic       screening for TB.
Based on LSHTM research, the resulting document sets out       basic principles for       prioritising risk groups and choosing a screening approach at community       level.5.5 Ayles and Corbett       were also members of the Guideline Development Group.
Also in 2012, WHO issued a new updated policy on collaborative TB/HIV       activities for national       programmes and other stakeholders.5.2 Godfrey-Faussett was an       active member of WHO's Policy       Updating Group and Ayles acted as an external peer reviewer in the       preparation of this new policy       aimed at establishing and strengthening mechanisms for integrated delivery       of TB and HIV       services internationally.
LSHTM findings and experience on the integration       of services for TB with       those for HIV through community-based organisations from the DetecTB       project are referenced       under the section on carrying out joint planning to integrate services.
Further impact has been made through LSHTM researcher participation in       international workshops       and meetings such as the Regional TB/HIV Implementation Workshop and Core       Group Meeting of       the Global TB/HIV Working Group held in Maputo, Mozambique, 10-12 April       2013.
Ayles provided       an official commentary on the latest in TB diagnostic technologies to an       audience of &gt;120       participants, comprising key international partners (e.g.
The President's       Emergency Plan for AIDS       Relief, Global Fund) and community and civil society representatives from       14 African countries       representing 70% of the TB/HIV burden worldwide.5.6     WHO estimates that through the LSHTM-influenced collaborative TB-HIV       activities, more than       400,000 lives have been saved since 2005, and more than 3m PLWH are now       screened for TB       each year.5.7
