     The Invest to Save Project (ISP) enabled Arts for Health (AfH) to build       on       its legacy of Hospital Arts R&amp;D and refocus on public health,       capitalising on patronage from Sam       Taylor-Wood and Melvyn Bragg.
The ISP featuring prominently in a       Department of Health (DoH)       working group report (2006) [A] commissioned by NHS       Chief Executive, Sir Nigel Crisp, the       subsequent DoH publication, Prospectus for Arts and Health (2007) and Arts       Council England       Strategy for Arts, Health and Wellbeing [B and C] These       publications disseminated the research to       reach a broader audience.
The ISP was championed by Earl Howe and Lord Howarth and was central to a       debate in       House of Lords (March 2008) [D].
In September 2008, Clive Parkinson       met with the Secretary of       State for Health (SoS) to discuss MMU's research in the context of a       speech that the Secretary       was giving on mental health, social inclusion and museums and galleries at       the Wallace Collection       [E].
Parkinson is now working with supporters within the House of       Lords [F] to establish an All       Party Parliamentary Group for Arts and Health.
Parkinson was invited to deliver his paper, Invest to Save: Arts in       Health, Research and       Development in the North West of England [3], to a number of       national/international conferences.
Keynote at the International Symposium on Arts Health, Australia 2008 (and       briefing the Australian       Minister for Health on UK developments); European Capital of Culture in       Vilnius 2009; British       Association of Arts Therapists Research Network 2010 and UK Faculty of       Public Health's annual       conference 2010.
In 2011, the paper was disseminated to Australian       Parliament through a       presentation to special committee.
Arts and Health Australia presented him       with the International       Leadership in Arts and Health Award 2011.
Commissioned by Arts Development UK to write Big Society, the Arts,       Health and       Wellbeing, Parkinson drew together strands from research and political       agendas which were       prominently cited alongside ISP in the Royal Society for the Arts (RSA)       publication; Arts Funding,       Austerity and the Big Society (available at: http://bit.ly/eKzJmv       ).
The Chief Executive of the RSA       explains the link, "I made specific reference to your research into         the relationship between art,         wellbeing and autonomy.
Your further suggestion that people disconnected         from civic society,         might be empowered through cultural engagement, is a compelling argument         and one that is         particularly relevant in our current political climate."
[G]     Between 2009 and 2012, Parkinson was awarded &#163;64k partnership funding, to       continue the       legacy of ISP, from Department of Health and Arts Council England,       developing North West Arts       and Health Network, and facilitating outward-facing public events at MMU.
With over 5000       members extending beyond the region, in countries as diverse as Cambodia       and Afghanistan, over       1000 members co-authored a Manifesto for Arts and Health which places AfH       firmly in a       contemporary political landscape and which Lord Howarth, described as, "an       enthralling       statement," and poet Simon Armitage, as something `that gives us worth as       humans.'
[H]     British Council requested Parkinson to present his work to Lithuanian       Government and       recruited him as expert consultant, he is advising on arts/health research       and development in       Lithuania.
His paper Civil Society, the Arts and Public Health sets       context for Lithuanian Cultural       Ministries first research report on arts and health; Menas &#382;mogaus geroveih       (Art for Wellbeing)       2012.
In June 2013, he presented to Lithuanian Ministers for Health,       Culture, Social Care,       Employment, Education, Science, and Presidents Office to develop joint       arts/health initiative over       2013/14.
[I]     Plenary speaker at five international conferences in Australia, two       opening addresses, the       first; Towards Sentience, forms book chapter in The Handbook of Interior       Architecture and Design       (Routledge 2013).
The second, Inequalities, the Arts and Public Health:       Towards an International       Conversation, adapted for Arts and Health: An International       Journal for Research, Policy and       Practice, Routledge (August 2013).
Parkinson has worked with Asia Europe Foundation as part of       trans-disciplinary team,       exploring Global Pandemic Preparedness, specifically how arts can enable       visual communication       around complex health messages [J].
He is elected chair of       National Alliance for Arts, Health and       Wellbeing leading into first International Arts and Health Conference in       the UK (July 2013) since       the 1999 MMU event.
Parkinson was keynote speaker at the first ESRC       funded, UK Research       Network for Arts, Health and Wellbeing [K] seminar.
He       was interviewed by BBC R4's Today-Programme       about arts/health research in April 2013 [L].
In July 2013       Parkinson, as chair of       National Alliance for Arts, Health and Wellbeing, and particularly for his       international work, was       cited in a debate on the Arts Contribution to Education, Health and       Emotional Wellbeingl in the       House of Lords [M]     Derbyshire Community Health Services NHS Trust (DCHS) commissioned Arts       for Health       to explore implications of the ISP across the NHS Trust (&#163;60k).
The       report, Fully Engaged and       Culturally Connected [5] identified synergies between cultural       partners and health/social needs,       enabling on-going cross-fertilisation of research and practice, and       development of Manchester       School of Art staff and student placements within NHS.
Arts for Health with Bangor and Newcastle Universities, awarded       &#163;1.2million for three-year       research programme called Dementia and Imagination, to explore the impact       of visual arts on       wellbeing, and investigate the arts as a vehicle for developing dementia       friendly communities, in       line with government policy.
In conclusion, Arts for Health started in Manchester in the 1970s at MMU       and is now a       globally recognised movement.
