 Concerted work on the creation of a contemporary poetry scene in Canterbury began in 2009.
Prior to that point, colleagues worked independently with leading national and regional institutions to develop the way modern poetry is practised, used, and understood.
Following Herd's appointment as Director of the Centre for Modern Poetry, a decision was taken to use the shared research base to establish Canterbury as an international hub for contemporary poetry.
Building on strategic partnerships with international poetry venues - the Kootenay School of Writing (Vancouver) and Double Change (Paris) - the aim was to create a scene that would reflect and develop new currents in international poetry, while building audiences and changing pedagogy at the local level.
The impacts have been two-fold in the users and audiences they have benefitted.
First, by creating a highly innovative international poetry festival (Sounds New Poetry) where none previously existed, and by collaborating on an award-winning performance series (Free Range), University of Kent poets have built and enriched a new regional audience for international poetry, while, by using the festival to commission new collaborations between poets and musicians, Kent poets have significantly altered the creative practice of leading practitioners.
Second, through the Arts-Council funded Wise Words project, Kent poets have taken contemporary poetry to out-of-mainstream social groups.
Creating an Audience and Changing Creative Practice: Sounds New Poetry and Free Range In 2010 University of Kent poets approached the organisers of the long-standing contemporary music festival Sounds New to propose a parallel poetry festival, Sounds New Poetry.
The objective was to create and enrich a new audience for contemporary poetry while significantly enhancing the experience of the existing audience for music.
Matt Wright, director of the music festival, confirms the achievement of these objectives: `It would be no exaggeration to say that Sounds New Poetry has created a poetry scene where none existed before, and that that scene is increasingly attracting international as well as national attention.
'[5.1] Sounds New Poetry first ran in 2011.
It stages readings, workshops, lectures and performances in major venues throughout Canterbury and the surrounding region (Canterbury Cathedral; Turner Contemporary Gallery, Margate).
Leading poets have included: Marianne Boruch (USA), Steve Collis (Canada), Peter Gizzi (USA); as well as major British poets Tony Lopez, Daljit Nagra, Richard Price, and Michael Schmidt.
As Matt Wright confirms, audience numbers have been remarkably large for poetry events.
[5.1] For instance, `In 2011 ticket sales for the collaboration "Rote-Thru" between David Herd, Simon Smith, and Jack Hues and The-Quartet were 123, while the performance in the crypt of Canterbury Cathedral featuring the Cello Quartet Amsterdam and 6 Sounds New Poets (including Peter Gizzi and Richard Price) had an audience of 272.
'[5.1] This new audience for poetry has been further developed by the cross-artistic weekly performance series Free Range, on which University of Kent poets collaborate through the poetry collective Zone.
[5.2] As organiser Sam Bailey states, the idea for Free Range grew out of the 2011 Sounds New Poetry collaboration `Rote-Thru'.
That collaboration showed him that `more was artistically possible in Canterbury than I had previously imagined'.
[5.3] As Bailey confirms, since Free Range began in October 2011, almost all the poetry events have sold out, while `The Denise Riley reading on November 15th 2012 was the most well-attended event so far.
'[5.3] The audiences created by Sounds New Poetry and Free Range have been significantly enriched by their encounter with new work.
After the 2012 Sounds New Poetry collaboration `Feedback' audience member Sampurna Chattarji blogged, `For forty minutes I am mesmerized as the voices... enter and leave the music ...
I feel lit-up.
'[5.4] Such representative reaction is confirmed by the citation that accompanied the presentation of the 2013 Canterbury Culture Award for Cultural Pioneer to Free Range.
As the judges observed: `This award recognises a truly pioneering, imaginative and courageous project that has collaboration at its heart ...
These events are a rich and creative mix of music, film, poetry, technology and even culinary experimentation ... blending performances to create cultural experiences that amaze, inspire and excite.
'[5.5] A central aesthetic objective of Sounds New Poetry was to advance artistic practice through the commissioning of collaborative works.
Such collaborations have significantly altered the practice of leading practitioners.
Since working with Herd and Smith, Jack Hues (leader of international rock band Wang Chung as well as The-Quartet) has gone on to work with the major British poet Kelvin Corcoran, setting his poems in the sequence `Thesis on the Ballad'.
As Hues states, `As a composer I treated the compositional space [of `Rote-Thru'] in a way that I had not attempted before.
...
This project has been a very creative springboard for my collaborations.
'[5.6] Such advanced creative practice has reached and enriched further audiences.
`Rote-Thru' has since been performed at (among other venues) the `Xing the Line' series in London (again to a sell-out audience of 100+) and the `Sounds of Surprise Festival' (Oxford); a studio-recording and discussion of the piece have featured in the music issue of the international journal Thinking Verse (www.thinkingverse.com/rotethru.html).
The 2012 collaboration between Gaffield, Debney and the Common Objects ensemble was broadcast on Radio 3's Hear and Now (08/09/2012).
Reaching out-of-mainstream Groups: Wise Words Building on the success of Sounds New Poetry, and on Debney's longstanding work in community education, Wise Words was a collaborative project led by University of Kent poets and including Canterbury City Council, Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU), and the Canterbury Festival.
Funded by South East Arts (&#163;9,000), the project used poetry to educate and understand out-of-mainstream groups.
The structure of the project was integral to its achievement.
Directed by Debney, four postgraduate creative writing students from Kent and four PGCE students from CCCU worked in pairs with combinations of out-of-mainstream and mainstream social groups: young people recently arrived in the UK using the Riverside Centre, Canterbury; St. Nicholas Special School, Canterbury; the Whitstable performance group `Desert Island Divas'; the senior dance group `Moving Memories'.
The project's aim was to use poetry to develop communication between the groups.
The project achieved two interconnected objectives.
First, it changed the way poetry is used in the training of teachers in the East Kent region, so enabling new teachers to put poetry to further use once they entered the classroom.
Second, it showed how poetry can be used to educate and understand out-of-mainstream groups.
To ensure the further social reach of the project, work developed in the groups was subsequently published in the anthology Wise Words.
The impacts of Wise Words were threefold.
First, the project altered the training of teachers at a regional level.
Virginia Bower, Senior Lecturer in Primary Education at CCCU, states, `Wise Words has changed the way I think about teaching poetry and writing, giving students more freedom and opportunities to decide for whom they are writing and the purpose of their writing.
'[5.7] Second, by its example, Wise Words has stimulated further innovations in community education in the East Kent region.
Inspired by the project, the Canterbury community arts group Workers of Art set up the Wise Words Festival 2013.
As Director of Workers of Art Beth Cuenco reports, `The success of the Wise Words Project in terms of both process and product, inspired our team to reshape how we engage with ... the community through our outreach.
'[5.8] Third, the project significantly benefitted users of out-of-mainstream groups.
This is measured by their commentary on the project in the anthology.
Invited to write a collective letter to adults in the community, the young people using the Riverside Centre (who asked to remain anonymous in the anthology) wrote: `I want to be listened to / I want you to be able to communicate well with me / I want you to understand my feelings / I want you to have confidence in me and give me chance'.
[5.9] The significance of Wise Words for its primary users lies in the fact that it enabled these shared thoughts to be voiced publicly.
The Wise Words project as whole consolidates the overarching intention to establish Canterbury as an international poetic centre that promotes the public value of contemporary poetry.
