     Stevens' research has provided unique evidence concerning the effects of       `progressive decriminalisation'.
The research has transformed policy and       public debates by challenging existing punitive models.
Using Stevens'       work, politicians and campaigners in the UK, US and elsewhere have been       able to propose moves towards decriminalisation on the basis of rigorous       evidence.
The main beneficiaries of Stevens' research are therefore       policy-makers and campaigners who debate the best means to reduce the       harms associated with the consumption of illicit drugs through criminal       sanctions or alternatives based on voluntary treatment and       decriminalisation.
Impact on policy debate:     The research on Portuguese drugs policy has shifted drugs policy debate       in the UK, US and elsewhere, in the direction of considering       decriminalisation as a feasible and potentially effective policy.
This       impact has been made possible by widespread citations in the media, in       policy reports and in `grey' literature.
For example, the research has       been featured in The Observer (5 September 2010), in Time       magazine (article by Maia Szalavitz, 23 November 2010), in the Wall         Street Journal (article by Gary Becker and Kevin Murphy, 13 January       2013) and in many other news articles.
The research has been cited in       policy reports both by campaigning NGOs (e.g.
in the reports A           Quiet Revolution by Release [2012] and The           Alternative World Drug Report [2012] by Count the Costs) and       other NGOs in this field (e.g.
A           Fresh Approach to Drugs by the UK Drug Policy Commission       [2013] and Drugs           of Dependence by the British Medical Association [2013]).
The       international impact of Stevens' research on Portugal is also evidenced by       citations in the US and Australia in media and policy reports.
In addition       to the articles in Time and the Wall Street Journal       referenced above, this includes a report on Alternatives           to Prohibition by the think-tank Australia 21.
Stevens       was interviewed on his research on Portuguese decriminalisation on Radio       4's Today programme on 10 December 2012.
The media profile       achieved by this research [see corroboration 5.1] has led to it       also being used by politicians in policy debates.
For example, at its 2011       annual conference, the Liberal Democrat Party passed a motion specifically       referring to the Portuguese example in its call to re-examine drug policy       [corrob 5.2].
Impact on government policy:     The UK government embarked on a major expansion of quasi-compulsory       treatment from 2001 (in the form of the drug treatment and testing order)       without evidence on its effects.
In this period, the US has also expanded       QCT through the creation of drug courts.
Stevens' work has provided data       that support the assertion that this type of quasi-coerced treatment of       drug users can be as effective as voluntary programmes.
His research       outputs have provided politicians with an impartial evidence base from       which future policies are being driven, and have moved the debate to       consider issues of the ethical limits of QCT and the issue of penal       net-widening.
These impacts have been attested to by politicians from both Houses of       Parliament.
The Chair of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Drug Policy       Reform [corrob 5.3] has written, `Professor Stevens has been one of       the few reliable sources of research evidence for politicians and opinion       formers.
His work on Portugal, in particular, has made considerable impact       upon political debate in this country and internationally'.
One of the MP       members of the Home Affairs Select Committee confirms this, writing that,       `The Committee leaned on aspects of your work in reaching our conclusions       and your research helped us to reach a cross-party consensus within our       Committee when assessing the Portuguese model' [corrob 5.4].
Stevens' research has been cited in reports from all these parliamentary       bodies [corrob 5.5], with specific reference to the Portuguese       decriminalisation research made in the Home Affairs Select Committee       report Drugs:           Breaking the Cycle.
Stevens' research was also cited in the       2008 national drug strategy and in 2009 by the Sentencing Advisory Panel       in a consultation which led to the reduction of prison sentence length for       some drug offences, in line with the recommendations from Stevens'       research.
Internationally, this research has been cited by the Global Commission on       Drug Policy in its report War on Drugs (2011) [corrob 5.6].
This organisation is committed to developing an informed, science-based       discussion on effective ways to reduce the harm caused by drugs, and       includes among its commissioners a number of former presidents, prime       ministers and foreign secretaries from an international arena including       the US.
Stevens' research findings provided evidence-based support of       their argument towards decriminalisation.
Significantly, Stevens was       invited to discuss his work on Portugal with staff of the US Senate and       the House of Representatives while in Washington in March 2011.
Stevens'       research on alternatives to imprisonment has also been cited in policy       guidance to national governments from the United Nations Office on Drugs       and Crime [corrob 5.7], further evidencing its impact on an       international level.
Impact on the work of campaigning organisations:     Stevens' research has influenced the work of a prominent movement for       drug policy reform in the US (the Drug Policy Alliance) that has taken up       his recommendations to avoid net-widening in QCT [corrob 5.8].
Stevens was consulted by the NGO Release in preparing the open letter that       it published in The Guardian to mark the 40th       anniversary of the Misuse of Drugs Act.
The Director of Release, has       written, `Professor Stevens is seen within the drug policy field as the       leading expert on issues where drug policy, criminal justice and public       health intersect.
His work is often cited by advocates and has been hugely       influential in Release's strategic campaigning plan' [corrob 5.9].
Another leading NGO that is working on this issue is Transform.
Its Senior Policy Analyst wrote, `in a debate frequently dominated by       emotive and polarised opinion, and historically characterised by a lack of       coherent evidence based analysis, Professor Stevens' work on the       intersection of criminal justice and public health policy in the drugs       field has made a significant contribution to building the growing momentum       towards more just and effective drug policies, both in the UK and       internationally' [corrob 5.10].
These statements by prominent       national and international organisations working in the area of drug       policy underline the impact that Stevens' work is having in shifting drugs       policy away from punitive regulation towards alternative models of       regulation.
