     In 2007, the Rusholme Project [A,B] an international artist       residency set the tone for the first Asia       Triennial in Manchester (ATM08).
Artists Rashid Rana (Pakistan) and Subodh       Gupta created site-specific       work in response to, and in celebration of Manchester's Rusholme district.
The resulting       artworks were installed as part of the Manchester International Festival's       Manchester Firsts that       aims to support the commissioning and production of new Manchester-based       artworks.
ATM 08 and accompanying `Reflections and Revolutions' public events       hosted by Hyatt and       Wainwright created dialogue, promoted international understanding and       added new knowledge to       an overly western-centric art-historical canon [B].
54% of audiences were from Manchester and 44% from outside.
43% were from       diverse ethnic       backgrounds [B].
These are higher percentages than those usually       achieved by the galleries       involved and demonstrate that ATM08 attracted audiences from within the       Asian communities.
Evaluation also showed a good age range, particularly ages 16-54 (as       expected for a       contemporary art program).
The education program had a wider age-span       attracting audiences       from the very young to the very old.
Across the two festivals in 2008, and 2011, ATM produced 58 high quality       new commissions       (mostly visual art and craft but also including performance and film),       exhibited over 380 days,       featuring 52 non-UK and 50 UK artists.
The ATM's brought emerging and       established Asian artists       to the UK and directly engaged 1560 artists and associated groups in       creating the work, more than       half of who were from Black and Minority Ethnicity (BME) communities [D].
An independent economic impact study into ATM11 indicated excellent value       for money within the       Greater Manchester conurbation it generated in excess of &#163;12m in activity       and over &#163;5.9 million in       impact.
The ratio of cost to economic impact is 1:16 and compares       favorably with other major       festivals and events in the region [D].
Public and private funding was secured for both ATM08 and ATM11, sourcing       new funders for       each festival from within the UK (including trusts and foundations) and       Asia.
In-kind support came       from commercial sources including partnership funding from commercial       galleries such as The       Lisson Gallery (London) and Nature Morte (India).
Over 229,000 attended ATM11 exhibitions and events whilst an estimated 7       million were exposed       to new work presented in key public spaces in the city.
These audiences       included almost 20,000       people who had attended ATM08 and some 53,000 from outside Greater       Manchester who came       for an ATM11 event.
3.3% came from as far as Japan, Taiwan and USA [D].
Over 80% of audiences rated their overall enjoyment of ATM11 highly.
A       similar proportion rated       the online provision as excellent or good, an increase on the 75% reported       for ATM08.
Each collaborating institution received the advantage of working with a       large university and the       benefits of knowledge exchange are considerable.
Participating curators       expanded their research       expertise and knowledge base.
Collaboration led to programming by the       participating galleries       impossible without the ATM [D and E].
One curator from the John       Rylands Library reported on the       benefits of this approach, "...the Library has not commissioned an         artwork before, or worked so         closely with a contemporary artist and hasn't previously been involved         in a city-wide festival to this         extent" (Quotation from Public Programmes Manager, John Rylands       Library taken from [D])     Both ATMs were critically acclaimed in national and international media       and press reviews, [F]       securing the influential ArtAsiapacific Journal and A-N (Artists       Newsletter) (2008) as media       partners, Mitha was invited to give a paper at the Sydney Biennial,       Australia (2008); and a paper in       Istanbul, Turkey.
The Rt.
Hon Andy Burnham, then Secretary of State for       Culture Media and Sport       in his opening speech at Manchester Art Gallery, 2008 said, "international         exchange is the lifeblood         of creativity.
This is a real celebration of contemporary Asian art and         the power of cultural         partnerships and exchange".
Audience feedback for ATM11 was extremely positive and underlines the       cross-cultural appeal and       diversity of the event: User feedback includes the following comments "It         was so interesting to look         at a different culture I wouldn't usually associate with art" (ATM       website visitor), "the fact that         ATM11 is located in various venues across Manchester...the Cathedral,         Craft and Design Centre,         the Whitworth, Jodrell Bank...makes us visit places we would not         normally go to" (Visitor to ATM       exhibition at the Chinese Arts Centre), "It explodes the stereotypes         that many Westers have about         Asian Art" (These quotations taken from [D] (many others       available)     ATM14       Utilising its considerable network MIRIAD (Mitha / Hyatt / Kennedy) is       researching and organising       ATM14.
It has already received &#163;100,000 from Arts Council England in       recognition of the       importance of ATM08 and 11.
In September 2014, ATM14 will take place in 15       venues across       Manchester as well as expanding out to take in new audiences in outlying       Bury and Rochdale       galleries.
The Imperial War Museum North is participating as a hub venue       and Manchester's       Chinese Art Centre has secured &#163;350,000 private investment from Tang       Contemporary, China.
The Taiwanese Representative Office has contributed &#163;100,000 for a       Taiwanese artists show and       a film programme at Cornerhouse.
ATM14 will present the largest exhibition       of Chinese       contemporary art in the UK to date with 20 artists.
The curatorial       research for this aspect is being       conducted in collaboration with Professor Jiehong Jiang of Birmingham       Institute of Art and Design.
ATM14 has also secured a &#163;50,000 investment from MMU's Knowledge Exchange       and Innovation       Fund to support the development of impact initiatives including a UK/Asia       Art and Business Forum.
