     To address the problem of overdiagnosis of malaria and convince       practitioners, national and       international policy-makers and aid donors of the value of change required       a multidisciplinary       approach of coordinated research, which LSHTM helped to provide as       summarised above.
The       impacts have been in terms of policy change at international and national       levels, changes in clinical       practice and cost savings.
Health benefits should emerge, though are       difficult to quantify at this       point.
LSHTM staff were involved in the technical discussions at national,       regional, international and       donor levels to explain their research findings and set the research in       context.
At national level,       Reyburn was a member of the Tanzanian malaria diagnostic working group       which met between       2007 and 2010.5.1 At international level, Reyburn (and eight       other LSHTM malaria researchers)       also participated in the Technical Consultation on Parasitological       Confirmation of Malaria       Diagnosis (6-8 October 2009, Geneva), which was convened by WHO.5.2       To influence the main       funder of supplies for malaria diagnosis and treatment, the GFATM, LSHTM       provided the       background briefing for the Global Fund decisions and co-chairmanship of a       key consultation (31       May-1 June 2010) on the economics and financing of universal access to       parasitological       confirmation of malaria.5.3     In 2010 WHO changed its policy from one of treating all fevers in Africa       as malaria, to one where       only parasite-test positive cases were treated, recommending RDTs as a       good way to do this.5.4       The related BMJ editorial by Dr Rob Newman, Director of WHO's       Global Malaria Programme,       explaining this policy change5.5 cited three studies in support       of it, two of which3.1, 3.3 were from       LSHTM research and the third was influenced by LSHTM research.
With this change in policy, the Global Fund is financing RDT roll-out in       Africa (including with       significant UK government funds).
Many countries have rapidly changed       policy &#8212; for example, in       Tanzania, roll-out of RDTs nationwide was completed by end 20115.6       (see also 5.1 who is the       person giving the presentation in 5.6).
LSHTM researchers have also engaged with other funders beyond the GFATM.
For example, their       advice is acknowledged in a recent National Audit Office report in the UK       which concentrated       heavily on the potential waste of resources if antimalarial drugs financed       by UK aid go to children       without malaria.5.7 The report acknowledged progress in       introducing testing for malaria but argued       this should go further, recommending on p. 12: `Specify milestones and       targets to reduce       unnecessary treatment by focusing drug consumption on positively tested       cases, in public and       private sectors,' reflecting the key message of LSHTM research.
Other LSHTM malaria experts have helped to spread the findings of the       research by Reyburn and       Whitty through their engagement activities with relevant stakeholders.
For       example, Schellenberg       (Professor of Malaria and International Health, since 2005) included the       role of RDTs in reports       authored for the UK All Party Parliamentary Group on Malaria in 2011, 2012       and 2013.5.8 School       staff have also worked with the media to raise awareness and understanding       of the importance of       RDTs, for example Schellenberg's interview with the BBC World Service's Focus         on Africa       programme (September 2011), where he stated that testing is       `revolutionising malaria control'.
This       interview attracted 10m listeners in Africa.5.9     The impact of the WHO policy change and subsequent national programme       changes has already       been considerable.
A study in Senegal (which cited LSHTM work) found that       the change to pre-treatment       parasitological confirmation reduced ACT prescriptions from 72.9% of       malaria-like febrile       illness to 31.5%, reaching close equivalence to confirmed malaria (29.9%       of 584,873 suspect fever       cases).
An estimated 516,576 courses of inappropriate ACT prescription       were averted, worth in       excess of $1m.5.10
