     Concrete is the most widely consumed material in the world after water.
The need to fully compact       fresh concrete to remove the entrapped air and produce a dense homogeneous       mass with the       required strength, durability and finish has long been recognised.
Compaction by vibration,       however, is slow, noisy, dangerous and often difficult to carry out and       supervise.
Due to its high       filling ability, passing ability and resistance to segregation, SCC flows       freely into the pre-formed       moulds/formwork and achieves full compaction under its own weight, thus       eliminating the need for       mechanical vibration.
This saves time, improves quality of the hardened       concrete, reduces labour       needs, cuts energy demands, facilitates automation, and particularly,       removes the health/safety       risks associated with vibration (e.g.
deafness, "white fingers", and       noise-led stress).
As a result,       SCC is widely considered as the most significant innovation in concrete       construction for the last 50       years.
Research carried out at UWS has made several important contributions to       the development and       increased use of SCC.
The study on hardened properties of different SCCs       (G1, 3.1 - 3.3)       provided essential performance data for using SCCs, which led to more       confidence in the industry       in using such materials.
The work on SCC test methods by UWS and the       partners of the EU       Testing-SCC project (G2, 3.7) has resulted in new European standards for       testing this concrete       [5.1 - 5.5], and thus removed a critical obstacle for the widespread       adoption of SCC technology in       general construction.
Research results and findings of the ACMC       researchers and from the EU       projects were widely disseminated, through invited lectures/presentations       in international       conferences and to industrial companies in Europe, USA, Mid East, China       and New Zealand, etc.
UWS researchers also achieved impact through their leadership and       participation in various       national and multi-national interest groups/technical committees.
For       example, Professor Bartos       chaired the SCC Working Party of the UK Concrete Society (with Mr Gibbs as       the Secretary),       which together with the Building Research Establishment, produced a       comprehensive review       report on SCC [5.7] in addition to other related documents.
Through       working with RILEM technical       committee TC - 205 DSC "Durability of Self-Compacting Concrete" (by Drs       Zhu and Sonebi),       ACMC made a significant contribution to the RILEM State-of-the-Art reports       on `Durability of Self-       Compacting Concrete' [5.8].
Through active links with industry and CEN,       the results and findings       were also used by the European industry to produce the widely-accepted       `Guidelines for SCC:       Specification, Production and Use' in 2002 and 2005 [5.6], and in the new       European standards for       testing SCC.
In a letter of support provided by ERMCO (the industry       organisation representing       most concrete producers in Europe), it stated that UWS has been one of the       principal actors in       SCC development, and UWS's role in the above development has been pivotal       [5.10].
As a result of the above developments (led by UWS researchers) and       contributions made by many       others, the application of SCC in general construction has been steadily       increasing in many       European countries, e.g.
SCC has achieved around 30% of the total concrete       market share in       Denmark, around 10-15% in Sweden and the Netherlands, and many precast       concrete       manufacturers now use 100% SCC.
In fact, Europe is the world leader in       this innovative       construction technique (SCC is used more widely in Europe than in Japan       and USA).
It has been       predicted that SCC is likely to replace most of the conventional concrete       in the future [5.9 - 5.10].
These authoritative reviews/reports, guidelines and standards, though       produced in Europe, have       also had a global impact, as they formed the basis for       Reviews/Guidelines/Specification/Test       methods for SCC which were adopted by many other countries.
The research,       particularly the work       associated with testing SCC standards, prevented each country or company       adopting different test       methods, and thus facilitated increased confidence in the materials and a       more rapid acceptance       of SCC in general construction.
With the application of SCC in general       construction, the       construction industry has benefited from improved productivity and reduced       overall costs (due to       faster production process, lower labour &amp; equipment demand and less       repaired work).
The       superior level of finish and durability achieved through the use of SCC       benefits the users and       owners of the structure/building.
The elimination of vibrating equipment       improves the environment       on and near construction and precast sites where concrete is being placed,       reducing the exposure       of workers and the public to noise and vibration.
Furthermore, UWS's       research on using low cost       and waste `dusts' in practical SCC mixes [G3, G4, 3.4, 3.5] has also       impacted on the increasing       use of industrial by-products/wastes in SCCs, and contributes to a vital       drive for better environment       and sustainability.
Considering the scale of construction industry (e.g.
representing 11% of       GDP and 7% of workers in       Europe) and the massive quantities of concrete being used (&gt;2       tonnes/person/year), the increased       use of SCC has had and will continue to have a major economical, societal       and environmental       impact.
