     This research undertaken at Lancaster University has played a major       international role in       influencing the strategic direction of service and policy development in       end of life care.
Our       research has influenced funding bodies, policy makers and professional       organisations in promoting       the development and refinement of services, and therefore improving access       to palliative care for a       substantial number of people across the world.
Below we provide four       examples of the broad       impacts we have delivered (4.1-4.4), together with one detailed example       (4.5), of several available:     4.1 In Europe, the IOELC mapping of palliative care services was       extensively drawn upon to inform       the evidence base and recommendations in an independent report       commissioned by the European       Parliament Economic and Scientific Policy Department led by Martin-Moreno       et al (5.1).
This has       influenced governments in the UK, Germany, Italy and elsewhere to       introduce policy directives       such as the first ever national End of Life Care Strategy in 2008 for       England and Wales.
4.2 The European Association of Palliative Care (an International       non-governmental organisation       recognised by the Council of Europe) have a Task Force on Palliative Care       Development in       Europe (www.eapcnet.eu) which has       published extensive and detailed maps of palliative care       development in Europe (called an Atlas) with the support of IOELC, the       latest update published in       2013 (5.2).
The mapping methodologies have been drawn from the work of the       IOELC, in turn       leading to improvements in hospice and palliative care services.
4.3 A major influential international report (5.3) commissioned by       the Lien Foundation in Singapore       and carried out by the Economist Intelligence Unit (2010) once again drew       upon IOELC research       and consultation with IOELC researchers (Payne, Clark).
This report       produced a ranking of       palliative care development in 40 countries of the world, and with a more       complex set of indicators.
This report provided benchmarks against which national governments,       including the UK (ranked       first), are able to measure palliative care service development.
4.4 Access to effective, affordable pain relief is an essential       part of palliative care, but access is far       from uniform (5.4): 10% of the world population consumes 90% of the       available morphine.
This         means that millions of people die in pain.
There are many barriers       preventing access to opioids       operating at different levels including: public fear of opioids;       professional ignorance of pain       assessment; reluctance to prescribe in sufficient doses in a timely way;       restrictions on the storage       and delivery of medications; and national legal and regulatory       restrictions on opioid use because of       fears about illicit drug use and criminal activity.
In 2011, Human Rights       Watch (5.5) documented       pain and palliative care services in 40 countries citing IOELC research.
In September 2011, at the       UN High Level Summit on the prevention and control of Non Communicable       Diseases (NCDs), the       advocacy of international cancer and palliative care organisations drew       extensively on data from       IOELC sources and the early work of the ATOME project, to successfully       achieve the inclusion of       palliative care into the political declaration on the prevention of NCDs       that was signed at the       meeting and subsequently in 2013 the inclusion of a palliative care       indicator.
4.5 In the ATOME project, 12 European countries where opioid       consumption was below average in       2006 were identified and we prepared detailed `Country Reports' compiling       demographic, health       care, medication utilisation and ethnographic information: Bulgaria;       Cyprus;       Estonia;       Greece;       Hungary;       Latvia;       Lithuania;       Poland;       Serbia;       Slovakia;       Slovenia;       Turkey.
This project delivered policy revisions in access to opioid medication       and training of practitioners in       the 12 resource poor countries (3.5), working collaboratively with       national governments, legal       representatives, harm reduction agencies and national palliative care and       oncology associations.
The extensively revised policy document by the WHO "Ensuring balance in         national policies on         controlled substances.
Guidance for availability and accessibility of         controlled medicines", is       published free in 15 languages, has been distributed worldwide (5.6) and       was co-ordinated by       IOELC.
Cumulatively, the ATOME project has resulted in an impetus to       change opioid policy and       legislation.
For example, in Hungary the basic Decree defining       prescription by physicians,       dispensing by retail pharmacies, and the use, registration and storage by       healthcare providers is       Decree 43/2005 (X.15) E&#252;M, issued by the Ministry of Health.
Since 2011,       this Decree has been       amended twice; on both occasions it was simplified and this has       facilitated the accessibility of       opioids in the country.
A new Decree (No.
22/2012 IX.
14) EMMI of the       Minister of Human       Resources on obtaining a specialist qualification in health, ensures that       practising physicians must       now undertake a minimum of 40 hours training in palliative care and pain       management.
The       programme of training is published on the website of the Ministry of Human       Resources (5.7, 5.8)       following consultation with the relevant professional associations and       Ministerial approval.
The       ATOME project has had a direct impact resulting in changes to prescribing,       education and national       drug strategy in Hungary (5.9).
