     The effects of UVA have been long under-estimated.
However, due to its       significant penetration       through the atmosphere, added to the increased use of sunbeds where UVA is       the primary       component, it is a highly significant constituent of the non-ionising       radiation to which the human       population is exposed.
Moreover, its high penetrance of the epidermal and       even dermal layers of       the skin mean that UVA has significant potential for causing harm.
The       body of work done at       Lancaster [3.1-3.6] brought to the fore these deleterious biological       effects and it is now clear that       UVA is an important carcinogen.
We have taken three approaches to maximise       the impact of this       research to increase awareness and modify behaviour of the public,       industry and policy makers.
Impact 1     Boots UK Limited are one of the UK's biggest producers and retailers of       sun creams and have a       particular interest in developing skincare products that offer improved       UVA protection.
The harmful       effects of exposure to solar UV can be mitigated by the application of sun       creams, the       effectiveness of these being expressed in terms of a sun protection factor       (SPF) related to the UV       dose required for erythema.
However, despite the well-established negative       effects of UVA, many       sun creams do not provide significant protection against this type of       radiation.
Moreover, since       exposure to UVA does not cause erythema the current industry standard       tests for evaluating sun       cream effectiveness are likely to over-estimate the protection offered       against the harmful effects of       UV.
On the basis of our research [3.2], Boots recognised the importance of       year-round protection       against UVA even in climates such as that of the UK.
Consequently they       introduced UVA       protection into their highly acclaimed and popular Protect and Perfect       range of cosmetic products.
This has not only increased public awareness of the problems caused by UVA       (e.g.
featuring in       magazines such as       http://www.womanandhome.com/hair-and-beauty/498540/no-7-protect-perfect-intense-day-cream-5-protection-spf-15), 	  it has been a highly beneficial       product for Boots.
The Skin       Care Scientific Advisor at Boots has stated that "The research at         Lancaster University into the         effects of UVA irradiation on skin cell ageing genes was critical in         supporting the impact of daily         UVA exposure on the skin.
This led to the launch of the first day cream         with five star UVA         protection.
Subsequently all day creams within No 7 now include five         star UVA protection" [5.1].
We have an active research collaboration with Boots, through which we have       identified several       new biomarkers for UVA damage.
This work was reported worldwide [5.2, 5.3]       and we are       currently developing a bioassay in partnership with Boots.
Impact 2     The profile of the research led to Dr Allinson being invited by the       ICNIRP and WHO to join a       working group on re-evaluation of the UV Index, providing the only input       on the cellular and       subcellular damaging effects of UVA.
The UV Index is used globally to encourage sun protection behaviour in       at-risk populations and its       re-evaluation was prompted in part by the mounting evidence of the       importance of UVA in solar       carcinogenesis.
Our research [3.1-3.6] formed the basis to consider the       underlying health effects of       UVA by the working group.
The conclusions and recommendations of the       panel, co-authored by Dr       Allinson, were that the UV Index captures the risk of UVA sufficiently       that it can continue to be       used as a valuable tool in public health, and the consequent increased       confidence of the Index will       mean that more lives will be saved.
The recommendations were published in       Health Physics and       underpin the communication of UV risk to millions worldwide [5.4].
Impact 3     The findings on UVA in this case study have been disseminated to the       public via both newspaper       articles and radio programmes e.g.
BBC Radio Merseyside, 1/6/11.
One       particularly successful       route has been our partnership with North West Cancer Research, a regional       charity that supports       primary research into the causes and treatment of cancer.
Prof McMillan       and Dr Allinson are the       only researchers working on UV to have been funded by the charity.
Both       have spoken at NWCR       fundraising and awareness events in the local community and at Lancaster       University.
On the       basis of our research and with our support the charity launched a `Scrap       Sunbeds' campaign [BBC       Radio Merseyside 31/01/11; ref 5.5], which successfully led to the removal       or lack of installation of       sunbeds from twenty-five gyms and health clubs in the North West including       our own new       University Sport Centre.
The Chief Executive Officer of the charity       acknowledged our input to the       campaign as follows: "To support our claims we worked closely with our         funded researchers at         Lancaster University who provided us with statistics and evidence to         support the Campaign.
Professor Trevor McMillan also gave an interview on the subject to BBC         Radio Merseyside"       and "Lancaster University's ongoing support of our work is incredibly         valuable and acts as great         motivation for our fundraisers.
The Campaign was a great success and we         are very grateful for the         support of the team" [5.6].
