     Following the original methodological work (3.1), Diggle led the       development of an open-source R       package (geoR, http://cran.freestatistics.org/)       to implement model-based geostatistical methods so       as to facilitate their adoption by applied scientists.
This led to a       collaborative project with the       Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, which in turn led to Diggle being       invited to join an       international oversight group (the Mectizan Expert Committee) advising the       African Programme of       Onchocerciasis Control (APOC) in the roll-out of a multi-country       mass-distribution programme of       prophylactic medication against onchocerciasis (river blindness), and       subsequently to working       directly with APOC scientists in Burkina Faso and at WHO Tropical Diseases       Research in Geneva       (5.1,5.2,5.3).
The APOC programme has been running since 1995, spans 19 African       countries and has       generally been very successful, having administered approximately 70       million treatments to date,       with a target of reaching 90 million treatments by 2015 (5.4, 5.5).
However, the programme       encountered a problem when it was discovered that people heavily       co-infected with Onchocerca       and Loa parasites were at risk of a severe (occasionally fatal)       adverse reaction to the prophylactic       medication.
As a result, the programme needed to obtain an accurate map of       Loiasis prevalence       across the 19 APOC countries.
In the absence of reliable census       information, this required a major       effort in the collection of prevalence data from field surveys and its       integration with remotely       sensed proxies for environmental risk-factors, using model-based       geostatistical methods.
The       modelling problem was further complicated by the need to combine two       different survey       instruments: a "gold standard" parasitological (blood-sample-based)       instrument available at several       hundred locations, and a questionnaire-based instrument that could be       collected at several       thousand locations throughout the 19-country target region.
This required       an extension of the       original methodology, reported in references 3.3 and 3.4.
This methodology       was then used to map       prevalence throughout the APOC region (3.5).
Dissemination of these ideas       to the user-community       was achieved by Diggle making successive presentations to annual meetings       of APOC's Technical       Consultative Committee in Burkina Faso, attended by scientific and       administrative representatives       of the participating countries (5.6).
As a result, model-based       geostatistical methods have now been       adopted for decision making and prevalence mapping throughout the region       covered by the APOC       member-countries, for example, the map below from "Fifteen Years of APOC"       (Fig.
2, 5.7).
Specifically, APOC has adopted a policy of putting in place appropriate       precautionary measures       before implementing mass-treatment in areas where questionnaire-based       Loiasis prevalence is       thought to exceed 40%.
The model-based approach delivers maps that show,       at each location, the       predictive probability that local prevalence exceeds this 40% threshold,       conditional on all of the       available data.
The research has changed APOC's practice with regard to implementation of       the mass-treatment       programme in areas highly endemic for Loiasis (5.8) and, through this, has       been of indirect benefit       to all rural communities throughout the 19 APOC countries, an estimated       total population of around       115 million (5.4).
Prior to implementation of the APOC programme in some       areas up to 50% of       adults suffered from blindness, but by 2005 the number of       disability-adjusted life years (DALYs)       lost to onchocerciasis had been reduced by 50%.
With the help of Prof       Diggle's research and       continued efforts on the ground further reductions in DALYs are occurring,       the prediction is that this       will be reduced by 86% by 2015 (5.4), As the current Director of APOC       states "Prof Diggle's input,         using his model-based geostatistical methodology, has been an essential         contribution to the APOC         programme" (5.8).
The impact is continuing, since publication of the       first prevalence maps in reference       3.2.
Prof Diggle's work has also been cited by HEFCE as an effective use       of QR funding in delivering       impact (5.9).
Figure 2.
Map of the estimated prevalence of eye worm history in Africa.
Map reproduced in       "Fifteen Years of APOC" (5.7) from reference 3.5.
