     The work of the EBG impacts the construction industry, mainly within the       building services       engineering and facilities management sector.
The impact is demonstrable       in the following ways       (reference to evidence is indicated in brackets):     The research has enabled substantial growth and savings for local SME,       C3Resources (1, 2, 3).
The KTP project with the company has helped it to increase its turnover by       28% and double its       workforce by automating data analysis that previously depended on manual       processing.
C3Resources estimates to have achieved an additional 1920 tonnes of CO2       savings.
The project       also increased service levels and improved cost management.
Furthermore,       the company has       partnered with the University on a collaborative &#163;967K project, which was       awarded to the       University by the HEFCE Revolving Green Fund 2 to develop integrated       energy management and       ICT for all campus buildings.
C3Resources was an integral partner in the       application and will act as       the independent verifier of energy savings.
Other industry partners are       Schneider Electric and       Cisco who will work closely with the Principal Investigator, Paul Lumley       of the University's       Procurement and Sustainability Department (4).
The project has also given       the company       `international exposure' and credibility enabling it to `expand its client       base/market share' and has       led to `cultural change within the business' (1,3).
Plymouth research, via the EPSRC KTN, is supporting The Cornish Lime       Company's, development       of a novel, competitive product for thermally efficient renovation of       existing buildings; the project is       also critically assessing the building regulations for fabric upgrades in       renovation cases, which is       presently pushing/crossing the boundaries of the physical possibilities       (3).
Work on thermography with Penwith Housing Association, RTP Surveyors and       the Cornwall       Development Company investigates the use of infrared cameras in building       surveying.
Through the       use of transient thermography It has been possible to increase the rigor       of existing building       assessments to give a `picture' of a building over a period of time rather       than a snapshot taken       from a single visit and the businesses are now assessing the feasibility       of adding this technology to       their service portfolio'.
Additionally, the work has advanced the       surveyors' `understanding of       thermography' and ways of `improving thermal properties of existing       premises, [for] both the       company and...clients' (3).
Commercial companies, Lend Lease and Wates Construction have used the       research to plan their       strategies in terms of building design and building management in order to       prepare for the impact       of climate change (3).
Lend Lease took part in the inaugural seminar for       the Institute for       Sustainability Solutions Research (ISSR) as keynote speakers on       `Maximizing Business       Opportunities in Sustainable Building and Development' (21 April 2011) due       to the positive impact       of the research on its business (6).
The event was held in association       with the EBG and the       University's business school and brought together representatives from       business, not-for-profits,       academia and government.
The eViz project, funded by EPSRC (1 September 2012 - 31 August 2015),       has already raised       awareness of the opportunities/benefits the research offers to industry       and the Third Sector.
This is       demonstrated by the letters of support and investments made by various       industrial/charitable       partners: Carnego Systems, Scheider Electric, CISCO, TEKLA, C3Resources,       Energy Saving       Trust, Eden Project, RegenSW, Carbon Action Network, Plymouth City       Council, Cornwall       Development Company, the Building Services Research and Information       Association,       Doddiscombsleigh Community School, GreenerTeign (a climate action group)       and Transition       Newton Abbot (3).
Impact will continue to emerge in this project over the       next few years.
To ensure the research benefits the maximum number of industry       practitioners, the EBG       disseminates findings through the International Building Performance       Simulation Association       (IBPSA), the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and others       (4).
Hard measurement of       the impact is difficult, but it has ensured a wide reach for the findings,       promoted practitioner/public       debate and had some impact on changing/informing opinion.
For instance,       the RICS-commissioned       `Future of UK Housebuilding' report (a joint publication by Plymouth and       Loughborough Universities) was lauded by industry press: `the research       highlights a series of low-cost       housing solutions which could significantly ease national shortages and       ensure that affordable       housing is more readily available to both local authorities and first-time       buyers'; illuminates the       likely `elements of success or failure [for the housebuilding industry] in       the future'; and pushes       `government and industry [to] consider more innovative solutions to       development' (4).
Indeed, MP       Nick Raynsford `agreed ... more must be done to ensure that sustainable       developments are       correctly valued to encourage their development' (www.makeoffer.co.uk),       while other industry       voices believe the report will boost the growth of new types of house       design/construction       companies (4).
