     Pathways to impact.
There were two main pathways to impact:             Consultancy to industrial partners.
Cambridge University Press         used the BNC in its English         testing material, and used CLAWS4 to analyse and enhance the Cambridge         English Corpus.
Oxford University Press used the BNC in a top-selling dictionary         product.
Software IP licencing.
Software was licensed to two companies:         The Society for Testing         English Proficiency (STEP) in Japan; and Lexical Learning Ltd (L2), a         UK-based SME.
Impact.
The impact has been very wide and highly       significant.
The main area of impact is on       language learners: a huge number of learners worldwide have benefitted       from a range of       Lancaster-enabled or Lancaster-enhanced products.
A secondary area is       economic impact on the       above-mentioned SME.
We expand on these two areas in the following:     1.
Impact on language learners     (i) Cambridge University Press used the BNC to underpin its "English         for Speakers of Other         Languages" (ESOL) materials: specifically, the Preliminary         English Test Vocabulary List, and the       materials in Business English and Key English.
In 2010,       there were nearly 3,500,000 entrants for       Cambridge English exams, with more than 11,500 universities, employers and       government       departments worldwide recognising and using Cambridge English       qualifications.
(ii) Cambridge University Press also used CLAWS4 to analyse and enhance       its one-billion-word       Cambridge English Corpus, thus providing enhanced word frequency       information and language       examples for over 60 dictionaries, course books and other items (e.g.
exam       materials) related to       English Language Teaching.
(iii) The Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary (OALD) is also       based on the BNC.
It is the world's       best-selling advanced learner's dictionary, now on its 8th       edition, and has sold over 35,000,000       copies worldwide (2,000,000 printed copies since 2010).
(iv) The award-winning Japanese TV programme 100-go de START Eikaiwa       ("Let's start English       with 100 basic core words") used the BNC as its key source data.
This       programme, broadcast by       NHK, regularly had more than 1,000,000 viewers.
The textbooks and CD       materials produced       alongside the TV programme sold over 800,000 copies.
(v) The Society for Testing English Proficiency (STEP) in Japan used       CLAWS4 to analyse its       natural language data in order to assist its teams in preparing better       language tests.
STEP is       Japan's largest English language testing body and delivers its EIKEN tests       to more than 2,000,000       school students every year.
(vi) Lancaster's highly-cited word frequency dictionary [1] led directly       to an on-going series of word       frequency dictionaries for other world languages, co-edited by Rayson and       published by       Routledge.
Within the REF period, the following dictionaries have been       published: Chinese (2009),       French (2009), American English (2010), Czech (2010), Arabic (2011),       Japanese (2013), Russian       (2013) and Dutch (2013).
These have had significant impact on language       teaching and learning       communities, with total sales of 17,238 copies as of September 2013.
Reach: Worldwide and huge (see numbers above).
Significance: The       materials described in (i),       (iii), (iv) and (vi) are all directly reliant on the BNC.
In (ii), CLAWS4       enables Cambridge editors and       authors to refine search results and collocation lists by part-of-speech,       significantly improving the       quality of the resulting dictionaries, course books, etc., while reducing       effort.
In (v), CLAWS4       enables STEP's test developers to perform finer-grained searching and thus       significantly improve       language tests and vocabulary lists.
2.
Impact on a UK SME     Lexical Learning Ltd is a UK SME that provides software products for       language learning.
It has       incorporated CLAWS4 into its WORDREADY product to automatically extract       part-of-speech       information from its source texts.
Reach: Since it became available in       2011, WORDREADY has       generated subscription sales of more than &#163;10,000.
Significance: CLAWS4       gives WORDREADY a       commercial edge by enabling the presentation of syntactically-richer       questions to learners, thus       providing a significantly-enhanced learner experience.
