     Pathways to impact.
We employed the following three       pathways:     - Contribution to standards.
Jointly with Rinicom, the University       made specific, significant and traceable contributions to IEEE 802.16m       standardisation, aimed at adoption of research outcomes as a global       technical standard.
- Collaborative research.
All of the underpinning research was       conducted in collaboration with Rinicom Ltd, as sponsor and immediate       beneficiary.
- Engagement with user communities.
The research involved a       real-world network deployment in Slavutych/Chernobyl (population 25,000).
Areas of impact.
The impact is wide-reaching and       significant, comprising both economic and societal aspects; and it is       evident at local, international and global scales:     1) Global impact through the adoption of enhanced technical standards.
The ITU (International Telecommunication Union) is the United Nation's       specialized agency responsible for the allocation of the global radio       spectrum and development of technical standards.
In Jan. 2012, ITU       determined that WirelessMAN and LTE should be accorded the official       designation of IMT- Advanced, defining next-generation global wireless       broadband communications beyond 3G.
Our research had direct impact on both       WirelessMAN and LTE, as detailed in a letter provided by the Certification       Working Group (CWG) of the WiMAX Forum [A].
This includes adoption of the       technical content of the proposals submitted by Markarian and Rinicom       first in the WirelessMAN standard IEEE802.16.1-2012, and subsequently in       the LTE specification (3GPP TS 36.216, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial       Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical layer for relaying operation") [A].
Reach: The reach is global, benefitting the wireless       broadband business sector (vendors and operators), and ultimately users of       next generation wireless networks on a global scale.
Vendors have to       implement techniques that originate from our collaborative research with       Rinicom in order to comply with the standards.
Within the REF period, the       techniques have already been implemented in chipsets produced by Comtech       AHA, USA (AHA-4501 ASIC); Runcom, Israel (RNA300 ASIC); and Sequance,       France (SQN1220 SOC).
Significance: The significance       of the contribution is evident in its selection for both standards, and is       also highlighted by the CWG in their corroborating statement: "...         presents an important and significant technical advancement to the         mobile broad band technology and systems as it introduces an efficient         method for the operation of transparent and non-transparent Relay         stations to improve capacity and coverage of a serviced cell".
[A]     2) Impact on business performance through the improvement of a         product.
Rinicom markets RiniMAX as a product for video surveillance       over point-to-multi-point systems that utilise WiMAX compliant radio       access.
The cross-layer solution developed by Markarian's research group       led to a new version of the product, "RiniMAX R8000", which launched in       September 2009, replacing previous versions.
As a result of the research,       the improved product is able to support simultaneous transmission of       multiple HD video streams over WiMAX.
Reach: The       primary beneficiary is Rinicom, i.e.
a local SME, but the product has       international reach; it has already been deployed for mobile metropolitan       area wireless video surveillance in the UK, Germany, Malaysia, Russia and       Ukraine.
Significance: The impact on Rinicom's       business performance is highly significant, as evidenced by key indicators       (see Table).
Turnover on RiniMAX grew by 148% over the three years       following the launch of the improved product.
The product accounts for       half of the company's total turnover, which grew by 143% in the same       timeframe.
The number of full-time employees rose from 5 to 15 [B].
2008           2009           2010           2011           2012                             Turnover on RiniMAX           &#163;182,000           &#163;398,000           &#163;671,000           &#163;723,000           &#163;987,000                             Total turnover of Rinicom           &#163;577,000           &#163;771,000           &#163;1,370,000           &#163;1,719,000           &#163;1,871,000                             Full-time UK employees           4           5           10           12           15                           The research impact on Rinicom's business culminated in further impact in       April 2013, when the company received a Queen's Award for           Enterprise in 2013, one of the most prestigious accolades for       businesses in the UK, in recognition of the company's achievements [C].
3) Impact on community regeneration.
The UK Government initiated       the development of a city- wide wireless network for Slavutych/Chernobyl       in a programme to address the "Social and Economic Consequences of         Nuclear Power Plant Closure", and this was delivered by Lancaster.
Our research team developed the network specification, oversaw the       deployment on site and monitored the network in the initial 3 months of       operation, for optimisation and observation to inform the research.
The       deployment culminated in delivery of the "Town Information Network" to the       community, formally launched on 26 March 2009.
Reach:       The primary beneficiary is the municipality of Slavutych and its       residents (population 25,000), who are provided with reliable Internet       connectivity.
The network covers the entire town and has complete reach to       its business sector and residents.
Significance: The       network has had a transformative impact on the community, as economic       growth had previously been hampered by a lack of modern and reliable       telecommunications, especially internet connectivity.
The Slavutych       Business Development Agency reports that new information services led to       the creation of 40 new jobs, and a 93.4% increase in the number of users       of Internet services [D].
A secondary beneficiary is the UK       Government, as our network deployment led to the completion of the       above-mentioned government programme (see the Government's 2008 report on       Global Threat Reduction activities [E], p.42]).
Minister Mike O'Brian       launched the network in a live telecast connecting Whitehall with       Slavutych over the newly-established infrastructure, followed by a live       telecast connecting pupils of the Slavutych Lyceum with pupils of Central       Lancaster High School, highlighting the societal significance of the       project.
The Government's press release highlighted the "culmination of       advanced technology transfer collaboration" as well as the "extensive       support from a team spearheaded by Lancaster University" [F].
