     a) The first piece of research concerned the retention of Police National       Computer records for those found guilty as teenagers but with a subsequent       long conviction-free period, and was carried out in the early part of       2008, Our team members were called as expert witnesses in a Information       Tribunal case held in April 2008 between the Information Commissioners       (IC) and five police authorities, following a police appeal against an       earlier judgement by the IC that the police authorities should delete       early convictions from the Police National Computer.
Our research on the       comparison of the risk of reconviction for those with an early conviction       before the age of 21 compared to the risk of a first conviction for those       conviction free before the age of 21 was developed under an ESRC research       methods grant, and relates to the concept of hazard rate convergence.
The       research was used to form a report to the court.
The report was quoted       extensively by the tribunal chair.
For example, page 30 of the judgment       states that:     "we did find the expert evidence helpful in making our own judgment         about the practical significance of the conviction information that is         at issue in this case and that it could be informed by the statistical         work in the Francis/Soothill report..."     The appeal case led to a Government review of the retention of police       records and to the appointment of a new post of Independent Advisor on       Criminality Information Management.
b) The second part of the research concerned the retention of DNA       profiles for those arrested but not found guilty and was carried out in       2009 and 2010.
A Home Office consultation on DNA profile retention was       released in April 2009 which proposed controversial measures to the       retention of DNA sample profiles for those arrested but not found guilty       (these were six years for adult arrestees, with twelve years for adults       arrested for violent and sexual crimes).
We made a submission to the Home       Office consultation document which criticised the methodology of the       research carried out by the Jill Dando institute, and suggested that a       differential retention period for those arrested for serious offences       lacked evidence.
Following subsequent press coverage of this issue in The Guardian       and online blogs, we were contacted by the Chief Economic Advisor to the       Home Office, John Elliott, to provide advice to improve their research,       and subsequently to critique their new research supporting the revised       policy.
Our recommendation that there be no distinction between retention       periods for arrests for serious offences and arrests for less serious       offences was accepted, as was an improved methodology.
This has now led to       a revised policy which has been implemented in a new Act &#8212; the Protection       of Freedoms Act 2010-12, which now contains a reduced five year retention       period for DNA profiles for those arrested but not found guilty.
This impact was chosen to be an ESRC         Impact case study.
c) The third part of the research has resulted in the OGRS3 tool that has       been adopted by the National Probation Agency for the assessment of       recidivism risk in pre-sentence reports presented to the courts, and is       thus being used to assess and prioritise offenders.
For example, the       Ministry of Justice's 2011 National Offender Management Service guidance       "Determining pre sentence reports" states that "A RoSH screening and         OGRS calculation must be completed for all report formats" It is       also used in the Prison Service as a way of determining enrolment of       offenders into the Enhanced Thinking Skills (ETS) programme.
The OGRS3 tool is additionally increasingly being used as a measure for       "payment by results" contracts for reducing reoffending.
Contractors are       assessed against the expected level of reoffending produced from OGRS from       an available prison sample, and their chosen intervention is expected to       reduce offending below that level, otherwise a reduced payment is made.
