     The research carried out by Skogly has resulted in a heightened attention       to the legal foundations for extraterritorial human rights obligations       amongst NGOs, the UN's human rights bodies and human rights practitioners       more generally.
This attention has resulted in the question of       extraterritorial obligations being incorporated into the work of such       institutions, through submissions to the UN, questions to States about       their international performance, and included in reports by NGOs.
This is       evidenced by activities detailed below.
Recognising that her research findings could affect the way human rights       obligations are approached by states and non-state actors in the       international human rights community, Skogly took initiative (with FIAN       International) to establish an international consortium on       extraterritorial human rights obligations in 2008 (http://www.etoconsortium.org/en/).
From the initial meeting of representatives of 7 NGOs and academic       institutions, the Consortium now has 93 members, including Amnesty       International, Human Rights Watch, Oxfam UK, and Greenpeace.
Amnesty       International, FIAN International and other members have included       extraterritorial obligations as a focus in their work programme.
(List of       members is available at http://www.etoconsortium.org/en/).
Skogly       has played a key role in the research carried out by the Consortium, in       particular addressing the challenges faced by extraterritorial obligations       in terms of jurisdictional issues, remedies for human rights violations,       causality and state responsibility.
She has also taken part in case       studies where actions or omissions of States have impacted on the       enjoyment of human rights outside their territories (published in Coomans       and K&#252;nnemann (eds.
), Cases and Concepts on Extraterritorial         Obligations in the Area of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,       2012).
Since 2008 the Consortium has met at the following conferences:       Heidelberg 2008; Lancaster 2009; Antwerp 2011; Geneva 2012, Vienna 2013.
Regional meetings have been held in South America, Africa and North       America.
The work of the Consortium (Skogly remains a steering group member),       further led to the adoption by a group of 30 experts of the Maastricht         Principles on Extraterritorial Obligations of States in the area of         Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 28 September 2011.
The group of       experts came from the UN, Amnesty International and other NGOs, and highly       respected international human rights lawyers from academic institutions.
Skogly co-chaired the expert meeting.
The Principles were adopted in the       tradition of the Limburg Principles on the Implementation of the         International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights       (1986) and the Maastricht Guidelines on Violations of Economic, Social         and Cultural Rights (1998), both of which have had significant       impact upon the understanding of current international human rights law.
The Consortium actively disseminates the 2011 Principles and, after two       years, it is clear that the Principles are actively used by UN human       rights bodies and NGOs.
Following the adoption of the Principles, the UN Special Rapporteur on       the Right to Food, Olivier de Schutter, sent the following unsolicited       email to Skogly:       "I think everyone will agree with me that these principles would never       have emerged without your own cutting edge work on this issue: you were       the first, [...], to put an explicit emphasis on this emerging dimension       of international human rights law".
Likewise, the Human Rights Director of FIAN International stated that       "Skogly's various research articles contributed to the discussion within       the Consortium.
She has always had a clear vision of the Consortium as       providing &#8212; among other benefits &#8212; a means for academic research to       address the needs of human rights in practice...
Professor Skogly's       continuing contribution to this field is a fine example for the relevance       of academic research for practical human rights work."
The Principles are actively being used by NGOs and the UN, inter alia,       in the following contexts:     Through emerging use of the Principles in reports, submissions and       statements within the UN and NGOs work, such as the Human Rights Council's       Analytical           study on the relationship between human rights and the environment,           Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights,       December 2011; A/HRC/19/34, and in Amnesty International and Antwerp       University's submission to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child,       30/4/12, the way these institutions approach human rights obligations has       changed.
The Principles and the work that led up to their adoption have       provided a framework for a new direction in human rights obligation work       by these institutions, and requires a new response from states regarding       their effect on human rights enjoyment of individuals outside their own       borders.
On 26.09.13, UN human rights experts held: "28 September 2011 was a       significant moment in the development of international human rights law.
[...]" "The Maastricht Principles filled a critical gap in the       international legal framework, allowing human rights to effectively       respond to the negative impacts of globalisation that cannot be regulated       by one State alone."
