     The most tangible impact of Shove's research is to have established       `social practice theory' as a       point of reference in climate change policy.
As such, her work challenges       the dominance of       behavioural paradigms which have proved largely ineffective in securing a       sustainable future.
Because of Shove's research and engagement, new ideas are filtering in and       there is substantial       debate about how policy makers might engender significant transitions in       practice.
This is an       outcome of a distinctive and innovative approach to impact.
As part of her ESRC fellowship, in 2010, Shove established a `social       change, climate change       working party' including academic and non-academic members.
Working party       meetings were       critical in shaping ideas and feeding them into the strategies and working       practices of organisations       like the Environment Agency and the International Energy Agency (IEA),       private firms (e.g.
WS       Atkins, AD Research &amp; Analysis), and NGOs (e.g.
WWF).
Through such       direct methods of       engagement, Shove's work has been taken up and applied: WWF has revised       research methods       and agendas as a result; AD Research &amp; Analysis (a policy/research       consultancy) has actively       promoted practice-theory models, and the IEA now supports research on       practice and energy       demand.
Working party members comment as follows: "Elizabeth is the       singular most influential       person in the `behaviour and energy efficiency' work I have been tasked to       lead at the International       Energy Agency.
", Sara Bryan Pasquier (Programme Manager &#8212; International       Energy Agency, and       from Glenn Watts (Theme Expert &#8212; Environment Agency) "you introduced me to       new literature and       different ways of thinking that made me re-evaluate my approaches to       thinking about water use       and climate change.
I think that your "Sociology of water use" report is       extremely valuable and I       use it frequently with colleagues new to the subject of water use."
The working party process culminated in an Extraordinary Lecture       on "How Social Science Can       Help Climate Change Policy", held at the British Library (2011) and       performed by Shove and       working party members.
This event drew an audience of around 200 including       members of the       public and people from business, policy and academia.
The performance and       an associated       interactive "Exhibition of Ideas" presented key insights from Shove's       fellowship.
This is some of the       unsolicited non-academic feedback.
"I was sitting beside Moira Wallace       (DECC's Perm Sec) at       dinner last night....I told her about your BSA meeting [with which the       extraordinary lecture and       exhibition were combined] and the conversation actually echoed many of the       points made there.
";       "Tell me more!"
(DCLG); "No doubt you spotted our massive enthusiasm for       your work.
Please do       keep us posted of developments."
(DECC).The film of the Extraordinary       Lecture has been viewed       over 3,171 times on the fellowship website, which has had more than       12,881visits (Google       analytics)(1).
Following the success of the Extraordinary Lecture, the Department of       Energy and Climate Change       (DECC) hosted "DAY 22", an exhibition led by Shove on the history, future       and environmental       implications of a standardised indoor climate (funded by the ESRC Festival       of Social Science).
148       people attended, mainly from DECC and other Government Departments.
69% of       DECC visitors       who responded to the feedback survey thought the exhibition would, or       might, change the way they       thought about their work (2).
DAY 22 prompted DECC's acting Permanent       Secretary to discuss       risks of overheating with the Health Protection Agency and `reinvigorated'       links between DECC and       DCLG.
This exhibition has since been mounted in Melbourne, Australia       (2012) for a local       government audience, and for the Scottish government (2013).
More conventional forms of dissemination have also had effect.
Shove was       invited to present       evidence in person to the House of Lords Science and Technology Select       Committee in 2010,       following a written submission outlining the limitations of the       behavioural paradigm and the       principles of an alternative `practice theory' approach (3).
In addition,       researchers and policy       consultants have drawn heavily upon Shove's work which is now routinely       cited in analyses,       reviews and guidance on behaviour/climate change produced by and for       government.
Examples       include advice to Defra on habits and routines (AD Research &amp;       Analysis, 2010 and 2011) (4), `An       introduction to thinking about energy behaviour' (DECC/Chatterton, 2011)       (5); `A study of domestic       energy use' (DECC/Fell and King, 2012) (6), analyses of behaviour change       initiatives for the       Scottish Government (SPRG, 2011; AD Research &amp; Analysis, 2012) (7),       plus the European       Commission's Science for Environmental Policy: Green Behaviour (2012).
In combination, this is evidence not of a single policy change in a       defined area, but of a more       diffuse and perhaps more powerful impact on how policy problems are       framed.
This explains wider       public interest, demonstrated by media coverage in the UK (as a guest on       Radio 4's Woman's       Hour &#8212; talking about changing laundry practices, 2009, on Radio Coventry       and Warwickshire       (2013) on showering following coverage in the Times and Daily Mail (2013)       (8), in Australia       (Canberra Times, 2009; ABC radio, 2009) and the USA (New York Times,       2013).
It also explains       why Shove's research is having an impact on business and policy beyond the       field of climate       change.
The product design organisation IDEO sponsored a CASE studentship       on practice-oriented       design (Shove/McHardy), the UK Water Industry Research Association has       funded       research into domestic water-consuming practices (Shove/Medd), Shove's       research has been       taken up by the Forestry Commission (FC/Morris et.
al.
2012) and the EDF       R&amp;D, together with       Transport for London and the IEA are providing over &#163;1.6 million       additional/in-kind funding for the       DEMAND centre.
Looking ahead, and looking beyond energy/climate change policy, Shove is       developing the       implications of practice-theory for public health.
The first step in this       strategy is to co-author an       agenda setting article with Professor Mike Kelly, Director of the Centre       of Public Health at the       National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE), the production of       which is timed to       coincide with revisions to NICE guidance on `behaviour change'.
