     Building preservation and monitoring research by the CEA and EBG is       having significant impact on professional bodies, charities, individual       homeowners and industry.
Work at Plymouth has helped instil confidence in cob as an exemplary,       sustainable form of construction and has allowed the material to reach a       wider audience, impacting industry and homeowners in the Southwest.
Plymouth is known nationally for the CEA and Plymouth's research on earth       building, presented at various national and international conferences, is       cited in guidance documents, making a strong contribution to the standards       produced by bodies such as the BRE [1] and DEBA [2].
Additionally, Prof.       Goodhew of the EBG is a member of the International Standard       Organisation's ISO 9869-1 TC 163 (a working group which feeds into the       main ISO panel on Thermal performance and energy use in the built       environment) impacting international thermography standards that detail       what is required to ensure materials/products/processes/services are safe       and fit for purpose and which are used by both industry and academia.
Due       to Plymouth's membership on the panel there is now a Part 3 to the       ISO/DIS9869-3 detailing the use of thermal probes [3].
Researchers from       Plymouth helped start up a thermographic thread focused upon methodologies       to improve build quality before practical completion stage at Ecological       Built Environment Research and Enterprise (EBERE) at the Wales Institute       for Research in Arts and Design (WIRAD) [4].
Whilst the work with industry detailed below inevitably impacts       homeowners, this can be measured directly in two projects with the Eden       Project, a Cornish charity/social enterprise::     More than 690 households have been impacted by thermography research in       relation to their domestic energy consumption.
Thermography research at       Plymouth has had national coverage, with key images by Goodhew supplied to       the Telegraph often showing up in the context of thermography of       buildings [5].
This work led to collaborations with a number of social       housing groups, e.g.
Sovereign Homes, and the community-facing, 21st       Century Living Project, a collaboration with the EBG, Homebase, EST, and       the Eden Project.
This initiative influenced the lives of 61 households in       England using thermography as a tool to change their behaviour in relation       to domestic energy use [6].
Work under the `Cornwall Together' scheme led       by the Eden Project and supported by the DECC (January-March 2013) has       provided 200 further homeowners with custom thermography of their own       homes, which is being contrasted to control groups that were given general       thermographic images (sample size 200 households) or generic advice       (sample size again 200 households).
Comprehensive walkthrough thermography       was conducted for 20 homes, yielding a total of 620 households impacted       [7].
The research has also had a demonstrable impact on industry in the       following ways:     Staff supported and enabled the design of a Zero Carbon House, Keppel       Gate, Ottery St. Mary (builder: Kevin McCabe Ltd.) through soil testing by       Clark and thermal monitoring by Goodhew, and the company confirms that the       research `has had a significant impact on the work of Kevin McCabe Ltd ,       allowing us to expand and improve the services we offer' [8].
A company, Carfrae Sustainable Design (http://www.carfrae.com),       has been set up using EBG research as a basis for best practice: the       development and refinement of a low-cost monitoring system used to       indicate the moisture content of the interior of walls made from       non-food-crop materials has enabled Carfrae's clients (householders) to be       sure of the condition of one of the largest financial investments that       they will make.
This monitoring system has been applied in 10       domestic-scale mixed use buildings.
Hukseflux, a Dutch instrument manufacturer, is using Plymouth research to       change and improve the design of its latest series of specialist thermal       probes for measurement of the thermal properties of buildings and building       elements.
The research 'form[s] a significant part of Hukseflux's       progress, in terms of developing the company's existing products,       knowledge and understanding for new markets'.
Currently, new innovative       'guarded' probes are undergoing testing at Plymouth within the       dissertation research of Rolf Engels (2012-2013), with initial results       being encouraging.
And in the category of emerging impact, if proved       accurate, these will be made available globally by Hukseflux [9].
Cornish Lime, a local SME that supplies mortar, lime putty and related       products, has developed a new understanding of ` the difficult problem of       moisture transport...and the moisture and heat transfer effects of various       matrixes in the mix' and has changed the matrix of its Hempsulate product       for internal application on the basis of research carried out in       collaboration with Plymouth researchers, improving the product's       performance and thereby benefitting `the company, practitioners and       homeowners'.
[10].
