     The Spectral Visions initiative was originally designed in response to       requests from schools and colleges to aid them in the delivery of the       Gothic strand of the AQA syllabus.
The decision was made to host a free,       one-day event in June 2012 for around 100 people: in the end, 370 people       (tutors, A-level students and members of the general public) attended.
The       purpose was to deliver workshops and papers based on the team's research       strengths in order to make a direct contribution to professional       development and practice among teachers and tutors outside academia.
In       2013, the event attracted around 500 people (again, teachers, A-level       students and members of the public).
A significant number of responses       were received which indicate the impact this research has had, not only on       those present, (see 5.8) but also on intermediaries such as the wider       community in the north and beyond.
In exploiting the collaborative       research strengths, diverse strategies have been encouraged which enhance       public understanding of the Gothic, including broadcast and internet       dissemination, publishing ventures, readings, performances and       conventional lectures (see 5.8).
Engaging the public thus with the       research underpinning Spectral Visions offers demonstrable benefits to the       wider economy and society (see 5.6).
The impact of these events is primarily cultural in that they: enrich       public appreciation of the `Gothic' as a cultural form; enhance the role       of academic research to strengthen links and consensus between the wider       community and the academic community.
Specifically in a school setting,       they: enable teachers to review and improve the way `Gothic' is integrated       as a topic in their teaching; enhance engagement with Gothic texts, and       boost A-level grades (see 5.4); improve teaching methods, particularly by       demonstrating the effectiveness of embedding language and literacy in work       related to the Gothic; work in a consultancy role to advise teachers on       how to create a `Gothic Collective' and share good practice among schools       (see 5.3, 5.7).
The events received numerous press acknowledgements in various       publications including the regional press and websites (see 5.1).
Resources from the events have been viewed on YouTube and the neicn.com       website (see 5.2 and 5.8).
Cultural benefits are not in themselves       quantifiable, but the events, directly and indirectly, reached a large       section of the public.
These benefits include:            new markets/audiences such as the schools, colleges and wider public         attending the events (5.8);       new networks/relationships such as the teaching cooperative inspired         and facilitated by the Spectral Visions team (see 5.3);       new collaborations (eg setting up the `Gothic Collective', a student         mentoring system between Sunderland University and Prior Pursglove         College - see 5.7).
Both of these events were a direct result of the team's research and the       research undertaken by post-graduate students to inform their individual       workshops.
Their published work and other activities led to developing the       contacts with schools and colleges.
The interpretation of Gothic texts in       schools and colleges in the areas of Regionalism and Monster Theory is in       a large part a direct result of the contours of the Spectral Visions       team's achievement, worked out in their primary research.
Collaboratively       and jointly,the underpinning research has had a transformative effect on       the burgeoning area of Gothic studies in numerous schools and colleges       across the north of England, and, due to the high visibility of the       `Spectral Visions' project, has inspired an increased interest in Gothic       studies in the general public.
The team's publications and other       activities mean that they are emerging as recognised authorities worldwide       (see 5.1; 5.2 and 5.8).
Key researchers:       Susan Mandala: Senior Lecturer in Literary Stylistics       Alison Younger: Senior Lecturer in English, NEICN co-director       Colin Younger: Lecturer in English and Creative Writing, NEICN manager
