     Our research has increased knowledge of the nature of foreign language       proficiency, its measurement and diagnosis, and our understanding of the       standards embodied in the Common European Framework of Reference for       Languages (CEFR).
Understanding what to test and what the results mean was       the crucial background to devising an easily accessible on-line assessment       tool &#8212; DIALANG.
By undertaking the assessment, learners can diagnose their       abilities, providing an enhanced understanding of what they need to do to       reach their own language use targets.
The impact of DIALANG at the level of the individual is evidenced by the       number of test administrations recorded by the Research &amp; Enterprises       Services of Lancaster University (http://www.lancs.ac.uk/researchenterprise/dialang/about.htm).
Between November 2006 and February 2012, 897,941 test sessions were       recorded.
On average, nearly 14,500 tests were taken per month and 475 per       day during this period.
In addition, the effects of DIALANG on individual       test takers in terms of how they felt about taking the tests and in terms       of the impact of test feedback is reported in Huhta (e.g.
2010) and Yang       (2003).
Beyond the individual, institutions have deployed DIALANG in order to       evaluate the language proficiency of their students and, related to that,       their teaching effectiveness.
A survey revealed that already in 2005 at       least 49 institutions across Europe were using DIALANG, including the       Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland, Finland, France and the       UK (see Huhta 2010, p.127).
These included institutions of secondary,       higher, and private education, and companies' in-house training sections.
In addition, impact is visible from user testimonials from HU Utrecht,       University of Twente, and University of Antwerp (collected in 2012), which       reported that DIALANG is used for language proficiency screening of       international students and for `home' students preparing for exchange       programmes or on language degree programmes.
In addition, DIALANG is used       to diagnose the language proficiency of staff, both academic and support,       teaching and operating in second languages.
It has been called "of crucial       importance" to those institutions' functioning (User testimonials, 2012).
DIALANG has had impact at a regional/international level, as can be seen       in projects such as the European Survey on Language Competences &#8212; a survey       carried out in 2011 on foreign language competence and knowledge in Europe       and an initiative by the European Commission to support the development of       language learning policies across Europe (http://www.surveylang.org).
This project has based its development of systems on the concepts and       design of the input, editing and piloting software developed for DIALANG,       as well as the DIALANG software for automatic compilation of translations.
The impact of DIALANG-related research has also extended beyond the       development and usage of an internet-based testing system into       explorations of the possibilities of diagnosis in learning second and       foreign languages in specific areas.
For example, we have       conducted studies of English proficiency tests for air traffic controllers       and pilots, thereby improving the safety of a public service [R2, R4].
Professor Alderson conducted an 18-month validation study [G6] of a test       of English for air traffic controllers (ELPAC) for Eurocontrol.
That study       led to important improvements to the ELPAC test and to its achieving       widespread recognition as a high-quality, fit for purpose measuring       instrument (see: www.elpac.info, and       the ELPAC Final Validation Executive Summary July 2007; also available on       request).
A subsequent unfunded project surveyed available tests of       aviation English (for air-traffic controllers and pilots) and found       serious problems with the validity and reliability of many such tests,       potentially leading to serious compromises in aviation safety (Alderson,       2010) [R2, G6, G7].
In 2009 Alderson headed a Task Force of the       International Language Testing Association (ILTA) which proposed a       voluntary self-sustaining system of endorsement/accreditation for tests of       aviation English, in order to guarantee the quality of aviation English       testing.
As a result, the International Civil Aviation Organisation       developed a mechanism, in conjunction with the ILTA, to endorse (quality       check) tests of aviation English (http://www.icao.int/Newsroom/Pages/icao-promotes-aviation-safety-by-endorsing-english-         language-testing.aspx; www.icao-aelte.org).
Work following on from the DIALANG Project has involved close       collaboration with industry, notably, Pearson, as it relates to the       Pearson Tests of English.
The latest project is co-funded by the       Australian Council for Educational Research, Pearson Language Assessment,       the ESRC [G8], the Academy of Finland [G9], as well as the Leverhulme       Trust [G10].
As a result of Lancaster's research into language proficiency, and       particularly as contribution to development of the DIALANG assessment       system, there have been improvements in the operation and safety of       organisations across a range of sectors, particularly education and       transport.
The European success of DIALANG has led to an initiative to       expand its use in China.
In September 2013, Beijing Foreign Studies       University, in collaboration with Alderson, led a nationwide pilot of       DIALANG in China, involving 1000 students of English in 10 universities in       5 provinces, with the aim of adapting the system to Chinese users.
