     The 3 Phases: Crossing Borders (2001-6); Radiophonics       (2007-9); FEMRITE projects (2011-).
Reach: Crossing Borders extended from Uganda to Nigeria,       Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, South Africa, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi.
The Beyond         Borders literature festival in Kampala (2005) featured 48 delegates       from 18 African countries and 12 UK writers; 31 Beyond Borders       delegates were interviewed on BBC World Service Network Africa,       whose broadcasts have a pan-African audience.
Radiophonics (2006-2009) engaged with teachers, writers and school       students in Kampala and 4 major Nigerian cities.
Under the Sun,       broadcast in Uganda and Nigeria, reached audiences of over 5 million,       using fictional scenarios to engage the public in live studio discussion       with writers and experts on social issues.
Recent projects with FEMRITE in Kampala reached over 30 writer       participants.
Writing Uganda Festival (2011) reached new audiences       in Kampala.
The Lancaster/Uganda Friends project (2011) and Sticking         to My Footsteps project (2012) created website features and an eBook       of new writings.
These projects, their creative outputs and resources are       featured on the very extensive Centre for Transcultural Writing and       Research website at Lancaster, which receives over 900,000 hits each year       from 60+ countries, showing considerable engagement with audiences beyond       academia that is both ongoing and increasing annually.
Significance: Sequentially-linked projects in Africa have brought       about cultural enrichment for writers there.
They have enabled intensive       writing and IT training opportunities, allowed access to publication and       broadcast, whilst enhancing quality of life through recognition, increased       personal and professional confidence, improved educational attainment, and       engagement with contemporary social debates through literature.
The       projects gave a voice to many emergent writers from impoverished countries       with very poor literature infrastructures (little educational provision,       few bookshops, libraries or publishers) and continue to do so.
New       audiences were created and a sense of isolation and lack of opportunity       have been replaced by a realisation of achievement, possibility, community       and connection.
African beneficiaries included trainee writers (300+); writers       published in Crossing Borders Magazine (72); writers published as       Mallory book titles (4); delegates invited to Beyond Borders       festival (60); participating school students (150) and teachers (48);       international readers; researchers interacting with our websites, radio       audiences for the Under the Sun and BBC World Service Network         Africa broadcasts.
Writers involved in the projects won prestigious       prizes such as Commonwealth Short Story Prize 2003 (Jackee       Batanda), the Macmillan Prize for Literature 2005 (Glaydah       Namukasa), the Caine Prize 2007 (Monica Arak de Nyeko) and many       more have published books and in journals.
These are unprecedented,       groundbreaking achievements by inexperienced writers taking to a world       stage.
The significance of the research for African writers is illustrated       by the comments of a Crossing Borders participant, Glaydah       Namukasa: `Crossing borders has nurtured a new generation of African       writers and in so doing created a new face to contemporary African       literature.
The cross-cultural interaction between African writers and       professional mentors/writers from UK has been key in advancing       participants' creative writing that is continuing to impact the       international literary scene.'
40 UK mentors worked on the projects and were engaged in       education and cultural exchange that enriched their own writing and       understanding.
All visited Africa to run workshops; all were trained in       online mentoring.
As mentor coordinator Sara Maitland stated, the projects       benefitted the UK participants by `expanding their experience of       transcultural writing and a particular pedagogy for Creative Writing'.
The projects led to further training provision with African writers and       agencies, informed by the original projects and targeting key development       needs in the field of writing, editing and publishing.
These have engaged       individuals &#8212; developing performance, publication, writing and editing       skills &#8212; and empowered the commercial and developmental agencies they       belong to, such as Flint Media Productions in Nigeria and FEMRITE in       Uganda as Chidi Ukwu, producer of Under the Sun, Nigeria attests:       `We and our media production business grew immensely from the experience       of Radiophonics in Nigeria; our application of literary process as       thermostat &#8212; not just thermometer &#8212; of social and cultural realities, has       been that sharper.
.
.
Since Radiophonics and the "Under the Sun" series,       we have had more healthy interaction with UK funding and development       partners.'
At times the projects directly met the training needs of the       participants: `It was therefore fortunate that your 2012 workshop focused       on Editing skills which was already in our strategic plan.
Three of the       participants are now part of the editorial team for the FEMRITE e-Journal.
Also, one of the participants is a member of the FEMRITE Editorial Board.
Your trainings have therefore contributed not just to the members of the       organisation but to institutional capacity building' (Hilda Twongeirwe,       FEMRITE Director).
The projects extended and significantly extended the activities of the       British Council in Africa, leading to a new scale of engagement with       writers and interacting with societal change through an innovative       synthesis of education, colloquia, performance, publishing and       broadcasting.
Their success is illustrated by the comments of Philip       Goodwin, British Council Director for East and West Africa:     `Beyond Borders [literary festival] ...was probably one of the largest       contemporary writing events to happen in Africa in this generation.
We       believe that these projects (Crossing Borders and Radiophonics)       remain unique in their approaches to engaging with contemporary writing in       Africa; as such they have contributed positively to changing perceptions       about the UK and to developing writing talent'.
Ongoing Significance: The projects funded by the British Council       had significant impact at the time they were commissioned and left a       legacy of achievement and continuity.
A 2012 survey with a random 15%       (approximate) sample of participants from Crossing Borders, Radiophonics       and the Femrite projects showed that: on average, 88% recorded       enhanced professional development, 92% enhanced personal confidence and       achievement, 93% enhanced sense of cultural exchange and understanding,       99% reported enhanced creative writing skills, 80% felt their public       profile as a writer had been raised, whilst 80% had gained significant       access to publishing.
From the projects that took place from 2001-2009,       92% of the participants surveyed reported that the projects continued to       be a significant influence upon their lives and work.
One illustration of       the ongoing legacy of the research is the comment from the Zimbabwean       novelist Chris Mlalazi, whose novel about the genocidal Gukurahundi       killings of the 1980s was the subject of a feature in The Guardian       in summer 2013 [http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/aug/16/zimbabwe-running-with-mother-         robert-mugabe] that `I am just fresh out of the 2013 Iowa       International Writing Program where I had the opportunity to work on what       is going to become my fourth book, and it all started with Crossing       Borders!'
