     Edgelands has transformed contemporary understandings of landscape       for a diverse range of readers, listeners, practitioners and       organisations.
Its impact is illustrated by its choice as winner of the       2012 Foyles `Best Book of Ideas', a prize given `to the book published in       2011 which presents new, important and challenging ideas, which is       rigorously argued, and which is engaging and accessible'.
In his public       statement on the award, Foyles' Jonathan Ruppin described Edgelands       as `an ideal winner' because it `exposes the startling wonder and resonant       history of the landscapes we usually traverse so unthinkingly [... and       ...] surprises readers with insights into worlds that they might not even       have known existed.'
A wide range of commentators have repeated this testimony to Edgelands'       power to transform the ways in which its readers experience the world       around them.
The Church Times commented `Few writers teach us to       see the world afresh as Farley and Roberts do.
They have imparted an       original vision and blessed us with a beautiful book.'
In choosing Edgelands       as its `Book of the Week', The Sunday Telegraph described it as       `eye-opening and hugely enjoyable ... An original, surprising and rather       wonderful addition to our literature of place', while in The Telegraph       Wendy Cope commented that `this book has opened my eyes to all kinds of       things I might not have noticed before'.
Frances Spalding wrote in The         Independent that Farley and Symmons-Roberts `shake up our lazy       perceptions of an aspect of England' and added `Edgelands will gain       imaginative significance as a result of this gem of a book.'
Edgelands       was included in several of the annual `Books of the Year' lists in the       media for 2011, including those of The Observer, The         Spectator and blogs such as the Intelligent Economist, and       it was featured in several of The Guardian readers' lists of Best       Books of 2011.
The book was one of 6 nominees for the Royal Society of       Literature Ondaatje Prize which `is awarded annually to a book of the       highest literary merit &#8212; fiction, non-fiction, poetry &#8212; evoking the spirit       of a place' and Farley was nominated for the `Writer of the Year' award in       the 2012 BBC Countryfile Magazine Awards.
Edgelands has been widely disseminated through national media.
Its       significance and reach are illustrated by the wide coverage it has       generated.
The book was serialised as a BBC Radio 4 Book of the Week       in April 2011, gaining an audience of 3 million listeners, while it was       the cited inspiration for an episode of BBC Radio 4's Open Country       devoted to the idea of `edgelands' in our landscape.
Edgelands has       been the subject of extended reviews (New Statesman and Guardian),       features (Independent and Time Out) and interviews on BBC       Radio 4's The Today Programme and BBC Radio 3's Night Waves.
It was reviewed in The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Guardian, The         Financial Times, The Sunday Telegraph, The Independent, The Sunday         Times, Observer, Scotland on Sunday, New Statesman, The Economist, The         Times Literary Supplement, The Church Times, The Spectator, Evening         Standard, Prospect Magazine, Metro and Cond&#233; Nast Traveller Magazine.
Farley has further heightened the impact of his research through several       high- profile and prestigious public readings and discussions of Edgelands       including the Roscoe Lecture (St George's Hall, Liverpool 2013), Writing       on the Wall Festival (Liverpool, 6th November 2012), Manchester       Literature Festival (Manchester, 15th October 2012), Oxford       Literary Festival (Oxford, 28th March 2012), Wordsworth Trust       (Grasmere, 21st January 2012), Bristol Festival of Ideas       (Bristol, December 2011), Durham Book Festival (Durham, 19th       October 2011) and Cheltenham Literature Festival (Cheltenham, 12th       October 2011).
Edgelands' influential re-evaluation of landscape is seen in the       way in which it has informed major recent assessments of place.
For       example, reviewing the British Library's `Writing Britain: Wastelands to       Wonderlands' exhibition (May to September 2012) in The Guardian,       Blake Morrison commented that `The out-of-the-way and overlooked are the       subject of Paul Farley and Michael Symmons Roberts's book of last year ...
The notion of edgelands has left its mark on the British Library       exhibition.'
Similarly, The Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge mounted an       exhibition of contemporary prints entitled `Edgelands' from March to       September 2012 that sought `to inspire ideas about "edgelands" &#8212; the       forgotten, overlooked places neither city nor countryside, on the urban       edge'.
The global reach of Farley's research is illustrated by the       exhibition `Edgelands' staged at the POP Gallery, Brisbane, Australia       (October to November 2012), which was directly `inspired' by reading       Farley's and Symmons-Roberts' book.
The book Edgelands and the landscape concept it defines have now       become regular reference points in contemporary discussions of landscape.
For example, Edgelands was heavily cited in an article in The         Guardian (3rd February 2012) by Xan Brooks, on the       strange allure of broken-down deserted places, and in an essay by Brian       Dillon in The Guardian (18th February 2012) on the       cultural fascination with ruins.
The increasing use of the term edgelands       is demonstrated by Andy Beckett's review of Jonathan Meades' Museum         Without Walls, in which he talks of `English authors examining their       country's once-ignored "edgelands", as they are now fashionably known.'
Edgelands' impact has been across a range of areas and fields.
It       is now included on several academic reading lists for courses on       Architecture and Landscape Planning as well as Literature and Geography.
Its value for practitioners is indicated by the comments of the Architects         Journal (which describes itself as the `voice of architecture in       Britain') that the book is `generously interdisciplinary, and beckons, not       least, towards the spatial arts and professions'.
The research is also       influencing the policies and work of major organisations, such as the       `Campaign to Protect Rural England' who invited Farley to participate in a       seminar on `Edgelands: Unofficial Countryside' in November 2012.
The book       has been widely discussed from a range of the perspectives on the       blogosphere, with one blogger, for example, writing that `As a       waste-management professional, I was particularly struck by the essay on       landfill.
I have never come across such an accurate evocation of "the end       of the road" for our consumerist society'.
Edgelands has informed       the establishment and ethos of an organisational development practitioner,       `Edgelands Consultancy', with the book providing the company's name and       the inspiration for a `new and fresh slant' on organisational development,       `finding new possibilities, success and opportunity through understanding       and working with their edgelands'.
Edgelands is clearly influencing the way in which people       understand and experience landscape; for example, it has inspired a range       of guided and individual walks, including an `Edgelands' walk organised as       part of the Hay Festival, and cycle rides such as the Sheffield Friday       Night Ride.
The overall impact of Farley's research is summed up by the       following website comment: `In short, a book which I treasure to the point       that it has changed the way I assess and judge the "edgelands" of my       town.'
