     The increased engagement with Wordsworth's poetry and transformed       understanding of his work for a range of audiences has been realised       through 3 main channels:     1.
Website and linked outputs / activities: The From Goslar to         Grasmere website has received over 580,000 hits since going live in       January 2008.
Its primary objective was to make manuscript materials more       easily available to non-academic audiences, recognising the need for a       supporting apparatus that would increase their accessibility.
As an       editorial in the British Association for Romantic Studies Bulletin and         Review commented, `Sally [Bushell] has been involved in       groundbreaking work with this project, and the outreach into the community       is very valuable' (No.
33, July 2008, p. 1).
The website was specifically       designed to achieve impact beyond academia and has three levels of       intended audience &#8212; scholarly, educational, general &#8212; enabling users to       choose their own route through the site.
The site includes a `Beginner's       Guide to Working with Manuscripts' written for non-academics as well as       materials created specifically for use in schools and mapped onto Key       Stages (designed in collaboration with the Wordsworth Trust's Education       Officer, Katherine Kay).
A 30 minute DVD entitled `Wordsworth's Sense of       Place' was produced to encapsulate the key ideas of the website and       heighten its impact.
This DVD was sent out free to university and school       teachers in the UK, America, Japan, China, Sweden, Germany, Saudi Arabia       and New Zealand and was available on request from the Wordsworth Centre.
The website has produced a number of forms of impact for non-academic       users.
It has made valuable cultural treasures freely available to a wide       range of users worldwide and has provided support to enrich the users'       appreciation of them.
It has demonstrated the significance of       understanding Wordsworth's writing practices and materials and the value       of place for his poetry.
It has informed the Wordsworth Trust's decision       to digitize their entire manuscript collection in a commercial venture       with the publisher Adam Matthews.
The research on place and poetry central       to the project has shaped academic curricula and the public understanding       of Wordsworth more generally.
For example, the themes of identity,       location and the materiality of manuscripts are central to the Open       University's course `Romantics and Victorians', launched in 2012, with       Bainbridge and Bushell both contributing to the core film `Wordsworth, De       Quincey, and Dove Cottage' (also available on YouTube).
This film has also       had a strong public impact, having been featured on the iTunes homepage       and becoming the most downloaded iTunesU programme for a period in       December 2011.
The research has also had a public impact through       Bainbridge's discussions of Wordsworth and Landscape on the BBC Radio 4       Programmes `Crossing the Bay' (25 Feb 2013; quoted on `Pick of the Week' 3       Mar 2013) and `Open Book: Literary Landscapes' (11 August 2013), a       programme which receives over 1 million listeners.
As a model of       successful collaboration between a university and a museum, From         Goslar to Grasmere was chosen as one of ten best practice case       studies for the report `Shared Interest: Developing Collaboration,       Partnerships and Research Relations Between Higher Education, Museums,       Galleries and Visual Arts Organisations in the North West' (jointly       commissioned by North West Universities Association, Arts Council England       North West and Renaissance NW).
It was also chosen as an `Impact Case       Study' for the AHRC Landscape and Environment programme.
2.
Contributions to the visitor experience at Dove Cottage museum site:       The insights of From Goslar to Grasmere and `The Spatial, Literary       and Cultural Making of Dove Cottage, Grasmere' have had an impact upon the       Dove Cottage museum site, enhancing and developing what is a major tourist       and educational location visited by in excess of 50,000 people a year.
The       website project fed directly into the Trust's exhibition `A Home Within A       Home' (2008) while Atkin's work on the cultural history of Dove Cottage       strongly informed the exhibition `Romantic Poets; Romantic Places'       (2009-2010).
Atkin's research involved direct public engagement, surveying       visitors about their experience.
Having been designed and undertaken in       collaboration with the Wordsworth Trust, it has fed into the Trust's       reconsideration of both its site and the display of its collections.
As       the Trust's curator commented in a report for the AHRC of 2010: `Through       [Atkin's] work ... we are now gathering material that will inform the       re-interpretation of the site ... over the next few years'.
Both projects       have contributed to physical transformations of the Dove Cottage museum       site.
For example, Bushell's work on manuscript materials was central to       the special exhibition in the Jerwood Centre Rotunda, a project for which       she was one of two academic consultants (the other being Stephen Gill).
Completed in autumn 2012, the display in the rotunda, freely accessible to       anyone, uses a circular timeline to lead viewers visually and textually       through the manuscript stages of The Prelude, illustrating the       concept that `Great Poems Don't Just Happen'.
3.
Wordsworth Walks: During the assessment period, the Wordsworth       Centre has organised 40 Grasmere-based `Wordsworth Walks' for over 950       participants.
These walks were designed as a means of enacting the       research insights of the two research projects for diverse audiences,       creating a Wordsworthian framework through which participants could       reflect on a number of aspects of their own lives.
They use mini-lectures,       activities, and a series of on-site readings of the key research texts       (`Home at Grasmere' and early versions of The Prelude) to enable       participants to explore how Wordsworth's ideas about location, vocation,       vision and identity remain relevant today.
A particular focus of one set of these walks is on the values of       Wordsworth's ideas for organisations, including businesses, the public       sector and volunteer groups.
Originating in a collaboration with Lancaster       University Management School, since 2008 these walks have been developed       for a range of external users, including the following: Cumbria       University's LEAD programme for Small and Medium Enterprises (3 walks for       an average 15 delegates); Cumbria University's MBA in Leadership and       Sustainability' (14 walks for an average of 35 participants); Cumbria       County Council's `Transition and Resilience' Programme for Senior Managers       (5 seminar-based sessions on Wordsworthian vision for an average of 15       participants); Renmin (China) University Business School (3 walks for an       average 30 participants); individual companies (for example,       Sheffield-based company `School Trends' travelled to the Lake District       with all 150 employees for their annual `Development Day' in 2008).
In       collaboration with the Wordsworth Trust, 12 walks have been provided for       the general public and special interest groups (e.g.
`Dementia Adventure')       and walks have also been staged at the request of specific organisations,       such as the Kendal Fellfarers.
Participants in the walks have come from       all 6 inhabited continents.
In 2012, Bainbridge was awarded a Faculty Knowledge Exchange Fellowship       (&#163;9,000 over 18 months), facilitating the offering of `Wordsworth Walks'       to businesses and organisations on a free-standing basis and at a reduced       rate (see the website http://wordsworthwalks.com/).
The significance of `Wordsworth Walks' is evidenced by participants'       positive feedback, ranging from letters of thanks from school children and       senior citizens to comments in anonymous evaluations such as the       following: `The most profoundly impactful learning and development       experience of my life', `the catalyst for both inspiration and       reflection', `a very different and very high impact experience'.
The       significance of the use of Wordsworth's poetry in a business context is       indicated by the widespread media coverage and blog discussions the walks       have generated (e.g.
THE [9.8.2012], Huffington Post       [12.8.2012], BBC News North West Tonight [6.7.2012], Border         News [9.7.2012]: see, for example, http://www.itv.com/news/border/2012-07-09/wordsworth-inspires-blue-chip-companies/).
