     Defra has been the main, direct beneficiary of this project in two       substantive ways.
First, it has       helped this organisation work towards achieving its Public Service       Agreements (PSAs) (2001-       20041 and 2005-20082) set by central government on       rural economic development3-6.
Second, it       has contributed to the re-shaping of rural development policy, most       notably by informing the design       and implementation of a package of mechanisms that are attempting to       improve the productivity of       rural areas5,7,8.
It is in this latter context that this       project arguably has also had an impact albeit       indirectly upon local communities across rural England as some are likely       to be beneficiaries of       such measures7,8,10.
In terms of enabling Defra to achieve its PSAs, this project was       commissioned specifically `to       provide evidence which underpins Defra's policy formulation and       development'3.
Through our       expertise in data collection and interpretation we became a central part       of a rural evidence base4,       developed by Defra to help achieve its PSAs, by strengthening its       knowledge and understanding of       particular rural issues, particularly productivity and economic       performance, and of the most       appropriate policies and mechanisms to address such issues in future       national government policy-       making and local authority intervention.
Productivity and its spatial       variability have in fact remained       of key governmental concern and are central to the UK government's Rural       Economy Growth       Review undertaken in Autumn 20115, and subsequent research has       been undertaken by Defra       (2005)6 on the determinants of productivity which directly       draws upon this study in two notable       ways.
First, in seeking to establish a statistical understanding of the       factors that determine       productivity, the 2005 study6 employs a similar methodology to       this project.
Second, it focuses on,       and examines in more depth, the role played by spatial considerations such       as rurality and       connectivity that were highlighted as being important in this study9.
With respect to the second way in which this project has directly       benefited Defra, this being the re-       shaping of rural development policy5,7,8, several of the       recommendations highlighted in this study       have been incorporated into the package of measures that form part of the       Government's Growth       Review (2011)5, and which now comprise the government's rural       policy7,8.
For example, this study9       drew attention to the need to create local economic hubs or clusters of       related businesses in rural       areas in order to overcome pre-existing barriers to investment, which pool       scarce capital and       human resources and which encourage skills development, technology and       knowledge transfer.
Indeed, the Government's Growth Review (2011)5 made provisions       for the formation of a Rural       Growth Network (RGN) consisting of small enterprise hubs, and the creation       of a rural economy       grant for micro- and SME businesses.
Moreover, this study9       emphasised the need to `rural proof'       the provision of skills, education and on-the-job training currently in       demand in rural areas and the       need to identify current and future gaps in provision, all of which have       been encompassed in the       2011 Growth Review5 evidenced by the creation of a skills and       knowledge transfer grant (up to &#163;20       million) to fund a flexible and locally targetable skills training       programme and rural proofing10.
It is in this latter context that this project is also having an impact       albeit indirectly upon local       communities across rural England as some are likely to be beneficiaries of       these current policy       initiatives8.
Indeed, there is much evidence in English rural       areas of the creation of local economic       hubs and/or clusters of related businesses, a key recommendation of this       study9 and one which       has been included within current rural policy8.
For example,       five pilot rural growth networks have       been created in Swindon and Wiltshire, Durham and Northumberland, Devon       and Somerset,       Cumbria and Coventry and Wiltshire8.
Many more impacts of the       package of measures informed       by this study, on rural communities are likely to emerge in the near       future8,10; the &#163;20 million skills       and knowledge transfer programme is being launched in Autumn 201210,       whilst the lessons learnt       from the pilot rural growth networks are currently being disseminated to       Local Enterprise       Partnerships who are themselves responsible for supporting rural economic       growth and       development8.
