     The department's research expertise in the history of northern England       and the Borders, and specialist knowledge of relevant archival sources,       have been channelled to benefit the flowering of interest in family and       local history among the public at large.
Through a series of       collaborations the department has created a sea-change in the       accessibility, awareness and understanding of these sources for amateur       historians, thereby improving public participation and aptitudes in       historical research and contributing to the cultural enrichment of the       region.
Resourced through partnerships forged by the department with       heritage charities and government bodies, the developments below have all       achieved significant reach, attested by increased use of archives, as well       as by endorsements and testimonials.
i) Creation of online resources and research tools     Funded research partnerships led by the department have generated new       free-to-all databases, which transform access to archival resources and       include user-friendly guides to open these resources to non-academic       users.
Foremost among these are:     Manorial Documents Register [MDR].
The department has       created the Cumbria and Lancashire sections of the MDR, the national       online database of manorial records hosted by The National Archives [TNA]       ( http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/mdr/       ).
The projects, in 2005-06 and 2011-12 respectively, were funded by HLF       and TNA, with Winchester as PI.
The impact of the new sections is       illustrated by the fact that, since the MDR Lancashire project was       completed in 2012, hits on the Lancashire section of the database account       for c.10% of all monthly visits to the national MDR (source 1).
The MDR Cumbria project was accompanied by an online guide to manorial       records (http://www.lancs.ac.uk/fass/projects/manorialrecords/),       designed and built as an integral part of the project and subsequently       published in revised form in hard copy.
This is now the standard gateway       to these records, supporting the MDR and widely used by family and local       historians.
Andrew Rowley of TNA comments: `[it] is superb and represents       a national resource on manorial records, not simply a regional one' (source         2).
Since 2008 the online guide has received an average of over       10,000 visits per year (800-1,000 hits per month), the majority from       across the UK but reaching a global audience (over a 3-day period in June       2013 alone, visitors to the site came from Argentina, Australia, Japan,       Switzerland and the USA) (source 3).
Part of the online guide (the       glossary of manorial terms) has been included as a free download by         Your Family Tree magazine.
Related public events have been held to       support the MDR database: in April 2013 a training day on using manorial       records was run jointly with the University's Centre for North West       Regional Studies and Lancashire Archives (83 members of the public       attended).
As a member of the national MDR Advisory Panel, Winchester has       also played a supervisory role in projects elsewhere, in the drive to       achieve full national coverage of this online resource.
People of Northern England database, created as part of the       AHRC-funded project The Breaking of Britain (Stringer, Co-I,       2010-13).
This project built on another AHRC-sponsored initiative, The         Paradox of Medieval Scotland (on whose International Advisory       Committee Stringer served, 2006-9), to develop the People of Medieval       Scotland, 1093-1314 database (http://db.poms.ac.uk,       launched September 2012), and to establish alongside it the interlinked       People of Northern England, 1216-1286 database (http://pone.ac.uk).
PoMS now gives instant access to c.8,500 records in English       translation (c.300 supplied by Stringer from his own research), and       has revolutionised access to medieval Scottish and Border history.
Nothing       like PoNE, where translated royal records involving c.16,000       people and places in Cumberland, Westmorland and Northumberland can be       searched in various ways, has been prepared before for any English region.
Stringer took special responsibility for PoNE, and recruited and chaired a       Knowledge Transfer Committee, which included archivists and other outreach       specialists to ensure non-academic involvement in website design and       training, and thus the widest possible impact beyond academia.
In July       2013, 122 members of the public attended the launch of PoNE at a dedicated       Day School and/or local open-to-all training events for PoNE (and PoMS) in       Cumbria and Northumberland, which were organised by the department in       partnership with the county archive services.
Participants' feedback       includes such comments as `thank you &#8212; a very useful new resource for me';       `amazing &#8212; will tell local history group' (source 4).
In July 2013       the databases had 2,648 visits, some from as far afield as Australasia,       North America and Poland (sources 5-6).
ii) Enhanced training and improved skills for non-academic historians     The department's expertise in Cumbria's history resulted in the       establishment of the Victoria County History, Cumbria project in       2010.
Promoting public participation in historical research has been       central to the project since its inception.
Led by Winchester, this       flagship community-based venture pioneers new ways of working with       volunteer amateur local historians in order to contribute to a highly       respected national work of reference.
The project is the fruit of a       partnership between the department and the Cumbria County History Trust, a       charity whose trustees include representatives of a range of regional       bodies, including Cumbria County Council, The National Trust, the Lake       District National Park Authority and the Cumberland &amp; Westmorland       Antiquarian &amp; Archaeological Society [CWAAS].
VCH Cumbria       forms the hub of an interactive network which promotes life-long learning       by developing skills and generating new knowledge through the involvement       and training of volunteers in serious historical research.
Its website is       a `resource bank' of local historical data, which acts as both a training       aid to support volunteers' work and a databank housing the fruits of their       research.
A training programme run by the department, partly funded by the       Rural Development Programme for England, has offered by July 2013 six       courses at three venues in Cumbria, attracting a total of 121 attendances.
These training events taught specialist skills, such as palaeography and       the use of online sources, and were complemented by meetings and drop-in       `surgeries' at record offices.
The key feature of VCH Cumbria is the creation of new historical       research by volunteers working under the department's supervision.
In       2012, in a major enhancement of the local historical resource, over 100       volunteers from across Cumbria compiled historical digests for each of the       county's 344 parishes/townships for posting on the website.
Supported by       the training programme, a core of 21 people and three local history       societies are also currently engaged, under close direction from the       department, in the painstaking and extensive original research required to       compile full-scale parish histories.
Thanks to the department's support       and guidance, members of local communities are enabled to engage in       structured, purposeful, historical activity, acquiring expertise and       confidence which not only boost their ability to `do history' now and in       the future, but benefit all who wish to learn more about Cumbria's past.
As volunteers have commented: `the biggest impact on many of us is being       able to make a real contribution to a national historical publication and,       as a result, becoming ... more "professional" in our approach to local       history'; `this is a tremendous opportunity to enhance our skills and       achievements ...
It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of this to       us' (sources 7-8).
The project's website at http://www.cumbriacountyhistory.org.uk/       represents a major extension of the county's existing historical resource,       and is rapidly becoming a first port of call for all interested in       Cumbria's history.
Since volunteers completed the historical digests,       visits to the site have risen rapidly, the monthly total more than       doubling from Autumn 2012, to stand at over 1,600 visits (equivalent to an       annual total of almost 20,000 hits) in May 2013 (source 9).
iii) Enhancing the region's archival infrastructure     Stringer's research-based archival knowledge has regularly informed the       strategic development of Cumbria Archive Service as a major cultural focus       for people of all ages.
As a member of Cumbria County Council's Archives       Advisory Group (2002-), he helped to win the support of political       decision-makers for a state-of-the-art archive centre at Carlisle with       much improved facilities, including high-quality exhibition and meeting       spaces; was influential in securing HLF moneys (&#163;4.8M towards a       construction cost of &#163;8.5M); and represented the public's viewpoint in the       new building's design.
His role in realising this project, completed in       June 2011, has helped to bring major new archives to Carlisle, and to       achieve much improved public engagement with Cumbria's historical       resources and heritage, especially through community and educational       activities.
Visitor figures show an average monthly increase of 20% since       2010, with school children numbers rising by 113% overall (to 1,771 in the       second full year of operation, June 2012-13) (source 10).
He has       also been closely involved in strategic reviews of the Archive Service to       improve its responsiveness to changing user needs.
The Cumbria Archive       Service Manager states: `[Stringer's] extensive knowledge as a       professional medieval historian [has] provided invaluable insight and       support to ... the County Council ... in defining the way it delivers the       Archive Service to a wide range of user communities.
[He] made a direct       and positive contribution towards convincing the County Council of the       need for a new archive centre [and his] academic rigour and authoritative       advice carry appropriate weight both with policy makers and other groups'       (source 10).
Regional collaborations and main beneficiaries     The value of the department's activities in these interconnected fields       is exemplified by the mutually supportive partnerships built with both       public bodies, such as TNA and county archive services in Cumbria,       Lancashire and Northumberland, and voluntary organisations, including       Cumbria County History Trust, Cumbria Local History Federation, CWAAS,       Friends of Cumbria Archives, and Society of Antiquaries, Newcastle upon       Tyne.
The last 5 have c.2,000 members overall, and the department       has free access to, and regularly uses, their publicity outlets for       outreach purposes.
Such support has thus enabled the department's work for       the region to extend its compass and, in the case of VCH Cumbria,       to build a wholly new structure for coordinating and assisting local       historians of all backgrounds and abilities.
The chief beneficiaries       comprise the large constituency among the general public (both locally and       globally) with an established or new-found fascination for local and       family history.
Thus, the impact not only enhances cultural capital by       increasing knowledge and awareness of the region's history; it empowers       members of the non-academic community to discover more about the history       and heritage of their own communities.
The overall result has been to       enrich lives and to foster a new sense of ownership of the past at       grassroots level.
