     The research insights are employed to combat far-right ideologies and to       raise awareness and understanding of human-rights concerns,       internationally and nationally.
Impacts are achieved through:     i.
The work of human rights NGOs.
Two NGOs, European         Muslim Initiative for Social Cohesion (EMISCO) and Conseil pour la       Justice, l'Egalit&#233; et la Paix (COJEP International), coordinating       activities in 15 European countries, use Kallis's research findings in       their campaigns against anti- immigrant discourses and discriminatory       policies.
Kallis's research has shaped and informed campaign materials       since 2011, guiding the NGOs' policy.
The materials highlight negative       discourses of `othering', describe historical precedents, and build on the       lessons of the past.
Following the insights of the research above, the aim       is to strengthen mainstream constituencies to fight extremism.
The       Co-ordinator of EMISCO explains: `[We] came across Professor Aristotle       Kallis's formidable work with fascism, totalitarianism, modern propaganda,       violence, genocide and terrorism.
We approached him in 2011 and requested       him to be [the] organization's idea and vision partner.'
(source 1)     Following his research contribution and consultancy, Kallis was invited       by both NGOs to address 14 international campaign events to date,       including most notably the meetings of the Organisation for Economic       Cooperation and Development (OECD/Human Dimension Implementation Session,       Warsaw, 09/2011); the Council of Europe's World Forum on Democracy       (10/2012); the UN Human Rights Council (Geneva, 09/2011); the European       Congress of Citizenship meeting for EU minority protection (European       Parliament, Strasbourg, 11/2011), and special events hosted by the       European Network against Racism (EMAR).
In each meeting, the international       organisations were informed by Kallis's relevant research findings,       demonstrating the dangers to society when discriminatory ideas become part       of mainstream discourse, and suggesting ways forward.
In recognition, EMISCO appointed Kallis in 2012 to its Board, where he       was requested to draft the `concept' texts, which set the scope of       meetings and feature in the official publicity of all the NGO's events (sources         2, 3).
The research is beginning to have additional impact as ideas       percolate to grass roots level.
EMISCO's flagship initiative `In Search of       the New Europe', shaped by Kallis's ideas concerning the identification of       discourses of `othering', has already been adopted by Muslim organisations       in Germany, France, Switzerland, and Belgium in their everyday fight       against Islamophobia.
The Co-ordinator of EMISCO explains: `Professor       Kallis pinpointed the reasons and helped us to chalk the strategies for       promoting social cohesion and preventing racism and discriminatory       practices ....
It would be difficult to mention in words, how Professor       Kallis has enriched EMISCO's public profile and shaped the direction for       its future work ... and build working relationships with NGOs so that       grassroots activism can be enforced by academic analysis' (source 1).
ii.
EU and Turkish National Assembly project on Muslim migration.
The Turkish National Assembly invited Kallis to advise its EU-funded       project on `Migration Management: Parliamentary Exchange and Dialogue'.
Kallis was flown to a special meeting in Hatay, Turkey (06/2012) as an       expert on public discourse on migration, and provided advice on how to       manage public perceptions of Turkish and other Muslim migrants in Europe,       help protect their communities against discrimination, and manage       migration into Turkey, especially from Syria.
The official publication of       the Turkish National Assembly has published Kallis's article on the       subject in its formal magazine on the subject (source 4).
iii.
International media.
Kallis's research has enhanced the       public understanding of these issues through his contributions to major       British and international radio and TV programmes, including prime-time       interviews (Radio 4 Documentary, 02/2012; Radio 4 Analysis, 06/2012; Radio       4 Today, 05/2012,) with an estimated 12m listeners in all (based on       producers' figures), excluding repeats and podcast downloads.
Kallis       commented on the rise of emerging far-right parties such as the Greek       Golden Dawn, (Radio 5 Live, 09/05/2012, and Danish National Radio, Orientiring       04/08/2011).
Popular blogs followed (frontage article on OpenDemocracy,       06/2012), and newspaper reports (Greek daily, Ta Nea, 11/2010).
Kallis's commentaries on the rise of extremism in Greece in Associated         Press (01/08/2011) and Bloomberg.com (23/5/2012) were further       reproduced in mass websites and blogs, including the online editions of Huffington         Post, The Guardian, and New York Times.
The Turkish       TV station Avrupa interviewed Kallis on Muslim immigration in Europe.
The       interview aired on 21 April 2013 was posted online.
In addition to these wide-reaching programmes, Kallis's work has had an       impact on younger audiences, particularly through his involvement in the       documentary series `Love, Hate and Propaganda', which he oversaw as one of       the two main series advisors (employing 16 expert consultants overall).
This Canadian Broadcast Corporation series was first shown on 03/2010,       with an average of 603,166 viewers per episode, repeated thrice, and       250,000 website views, as well as downloads.
(sources 5 and 6)       The program emphasised the importance of the past in informing and       educating younger viewers about the dangers of extreme ideas and public       complacency.
This series was labelled `WWII for a New Generation' and was       widely praised in media reviews and educational blogs.
It has been adopted       by the Canadian teachers' federations as a valuable learning resource for       secondary education curricula and has had an impact on school history       programmes: reviews praised the series for asking `big questions' about       the past that are relevant to a younger generation' and for effectively       engaging pupils with historical propaganda materials (source 7).
iv.
Public engagement and local community activism.
Lancaster's       tradition of service and community engagement naturally coincided with the       message of the research, which highlights the role of proactive civic       intervention to combat extremism.
In a meeting in Northampton between       `academics and practitioners', for example, which focused on how       `anti-fascists, academics, and governments should tackle racism together',       Kallis gave a keynote address `examining the international dynamics of       far-right movements' and the part they play in normalising `racist taboos'       (source 8).
The importance of the historical perspective was noted       in the online searchlightmagazine, which reported the event: `This       pattern finds modern echoes when European politicians develop messages,       and even laws, that target Muslim communities in a prejudicial way.
Once       again, breaking racist taboos by both mainstream and far-right politicians       internationally only helps to make far-right agendas seem increasingly       acceptable in Britain.'
(source 8)     The significance of the work was felt in Lancaster's local community.
Since 2008, at least a dozen events were held in community centres in       Lancaster to reinforce human and civil rights and community and       inter-faith tolerance, supported by the HREA, AHRC, and Lancaster funded       `Dynamics of Memory' group, of which Kallis is a member.
The 'Rise of       Right-Wing extremism' event, drawing on the research insights, and       organised by Kallis and the Dynamics of Memory network (Lancaster 03/2010)       was attended by community officers from Lancashire Police, who have       subsequently used the insights in their training and local outreach       activities.
The significance and reach of the research impact are evident       in the words of Keith Jackson, member of the Community Engagement Team of       Lancashire Constabulary in Preston: `the research you have undertaken and       the lectures I have attended have been very beneficial to me in providing       information which I have then been able to use in presentation to partner       agencies and the communities I work in ...
Since attending the lecture I       have done over 70 presentations with anything up to 40 people attending       and included elements of what I have learnt from these presentations'.
`I       did find the event extremely useful in providing me with information about       the Rise of Right Wing Extremism in Europe, information that I was able to       utilise in presentations and also disseminate to colleagues,' he added.
`It has assisted me in ensuring we have a broad base of knowledge       regarding different extreme groups which we need to be aware of working       under the Prevent agenda of the Government Contest strategy' (26-7       June 2012).
(source 9)     Alongside key events, there were visits to schools.
`Many thanks for       coming to see us' said the history teacher in the local grammar school.
`It was a great talk delivered brilliantly and as you could tell from the       enthusiastic response from the audience they really enjoyed it ... it's       absolutely a good thing that young people have their eyes opened to their       own potential if not for evil, then at least for complicity.'
(source         10)
