     While the impact of Kawanami's research has increased greatly since 2008,       the process leading to this impact goes back to her Vice-Presidency of       Sakyadhita International (International Association of Buddhist Women)       from 1990-1995.
This high-profile organisation ran effective campaigns for       nun ordination, successfully re-established in Sri Lanka (1998) and       Thailand (2002).
The opportunities for disseminating her research that       Kawanami thus acquired established her as a world-leading authority on       Buddhist nuns in Myanmar.
This gave her the opportunity &#8212; in Myanmar's       highly religious, scripture-centred context in which academic authority is       highly valued &#8212; to collaborate with three senior nuns in founding (1998)       the nunnery school, [text removed for publication], one of Myanmar's       monastic educational centres.
Kawanami's research has guided the school in several ways.
(i) Kawanami's       historical research enabled the co-directors to refound the school on an       ancient site of nun education.
(ii) The co-directors were convinced by her       research (on the historical problem of the penetration of kinship) to base       the school on a `one-pot' (ta-&#242;) system.
This brings all resident       nuns into the `pot' regardless of their kin relations, curbing worldly and       individualistic tendencies and reducing time on chores, enabling nuns to       concentrate on scriptural study.
(iii) Based on Kawanami's historical       research on why nunnery schools have often declined, the directors since       2008 have instituted a legal constitution to select executive members by       merit, not by family or kin connections.
Since 2008 especially, this nunnery school has grown and become a role       model for Buddhist nuns in Myanmar.
It has developed an outstanding       reputation for academic excellence, in which the nuns excel due to       Kawanami's `one-pot' system, which has enabled increasing numbers of nuns       (currently around 20 each year) to pass the state scriptural exams.
With       many lay donors coming to see the beneficial outcomes, the school is now       self-sustaining, entirely supported by lay donations within Myanmar.
As of       2013 there are 200 resident students.
The school's graduate students have       opened two branch nunneries since 2008, and the school is affiliated with       an orphanage.
Altogether, 500 noviciates have trained at the school       between 2008 and 2013.
The principal beneficiaries of Kawanami's research are (1) these nuns and       trainee nuns, for whom the school offers a safe single-sex environment for       studying the scriptures, pursuing a religious vocation and affiliating       with lay supporters.
Further beneficiaries include (2) Myanmar's 50,000       nuns more broadly, whose spiritual standing and so also financial and       social support has been enhanced by the reputation, growth and financial       success of the [text removed for publication] school.
More broadly still,       the beneficiaries include (3) girls and women in Myanmar, for whom       monastic life increasingly provides an opportunity for education and a       career as nunnery schools gain in status and financial sustainability.
Thus, Kawanami's engaged research has led to improvements in nuns' and         women's status.
According to Dr Elizabeth Harris (Associate       Professor, Religious Studies, Liverpool Hope University), who has visited       the school, `Kawanami's contribution to the advancement of Buddhist nuns       in Myanmar is considerable' (Ref.
1).
Evidence of the school bringing this       benefit to girls across Myanmar comes from, e.g.
Dr. Sik Fa Ren (teaching       consultant, Centre of Buddhist Studies, University of Hong Kong) who in       2011 escorted 30 Buddhists (from Dharma Nature Preaching Hall, Ching Fat       Buddhist Lotus Centre and other Buddhist circles) to visit the nunnery.
Fa       Ren reports that: `Children have aspirations to study the Buddhist       teaching and even become a monastic when they are young.
We saw young nuns       ...
It turned out that it was (they) who insisted to become a nun and it       was their goal to attend the nunnery school.
...
The nuns told us that it       was competitive to get into the nunnery school and it was like a dream       come true when they were enrolled' (Ref.
2).
Blogging in 2012, visitor       Dianne A confirms the importance of this opportunity to the girls, for a       well rounded education as well as for Buddhist study: `We met the youngest       nun - a nine-year-old girl ... She had come to the Nunnery to learn to       speak Burmese fluently as she only spoke Shan.
She said she was happy to       be there' (Ref.
3).
The school now also contributes significantly to Myanmar's cultural         life and to tourism.
This is shown by large attendance figures at       regular ceremonies at the school (e.g., 1000 monks and nuns attended a       ceremony during Fa Ren's 2011 visit) and from tourism.
Although the       military regime controlled tourism tightly until recently, the Sagaing       Hills complex of monasteries and nunneries features highly on the       now-developing tourist itinerary.
Operators whose tours now feature visits       to [text removed for publication] the school include Travel IndoChina,       World Expeditions, Wandertours and, especially, Cardinal Photos, which has       run regular photographic tours to the school since 2005, bringing new       financial benefits to this developing country.
A documentary about the       school aired on Sky Net television in Myanmar in September 2013.
There is a high level of international interest in the school, evidenced       by audience figures for Kawanami's recent media broadcasts on the topic -       e.g., on Radio National (Australia), 4/11/2008, audience c. 250,000 plus       10,000 podcast downloads; BBC World Service 10/4/2010, audience c. 1.5m; Sunday         Morning on Radio Scotland 11/3/2012, audience c. 300,000) (source:       Radio Joint Audience Research).
The school was recently the subject of a       substantial feature in Elle magazine (Belgium and France) (Ref.
4), which discusses Kawanami's research.
Further evidence of international       recognition is the regular visitor groups (such as Fa Ren's in 2011) from       various countries and their donations (e.g., c. US$30,000 from the Hong       Kong group alone).
The school is thus raising Myanmar's cultural         profile and reputation internationally.
Also, the school is contributing significantly to the growth of civil         society in Myanmar, which is currently undergoing a process of       opening and reform that began in 2010 with the release of opposition       leader Aung San Su Kyi from house confinement.
In this period the school       has provided a public venue for Myanmar people to meet and participate in       religious activities, and even to discuss politics and social affairs in a       safe environment, because the political authorities regard Buddhist nuns       as non-political in contrast to monks.
Thus the school is contributing to       the process of creating a public sphere free of government control.
Finally, due to the school's success in becoming financially       self-sustaining, numerous international NGOs regard it as a model of         indigenous capacity building.
For instance, in 2008 the Unitarian       Service Committee, Boston, visited the school.
Increasing NGO interest and       recognition of Kawanami's research and role resulted in her being asked to       host an NGO workshop at the school in Feb 2013: Gender, Buddhism,         INGOs and Civil Society.
Representatives of twenty aid agencies and       NGOs - including Oxfam, UNICEF, and the Gender Equality Network Myanmar -       participated to learn how to take forward this model of development.
Further NGO interest resulted in a follow-up workshop held with ActionAid       in Yangon in March 2013.
These NGOs in international development and the       communities with which they work are thus beneficiaries of Kawanami's       research and the developments that it has enabled.
As NGOs learn from the       model of the [text removed for publication] school, the impact of       Kawanami's work is extending beyond Myanmar.
