     The impact of Woodhead's research has escalated in successive stages,       first improving religious education in schools.
Central findings       of Heelas and Woodhead (2005) and Woodhead (2008) have been incorporated       into the A-level Sociology syllabus.
They are a major part of Unit 3 of       the AQA Sociology GCE and are the basis of a Sociology of Religion unit in       the OCR Advanced Subsidiary GCE in Sociology (Unit G672).
Woodhead (2005),       (2008) and others are discussed in major Sociology textbooks such as       Langley et al.
Sociology AS for OCR (2nd edn.
2010: pp.
203-4,       215) and Haralambos and Holborn eds.
Sociology: Themes and         Perspectives: AS and A2 Student Handbook (7th edn., 2008: p. 440,       pp.
422-5, inc. section `Linda Woodhead &#8212; female religiosity and gendering       secularization').
The latter is the market leading A-Level Sociology       textbook, bought and used by most centres teaching A-Level Sociology       according to publisher HarperCollins.
Thus Woodhead's research has       enhanced the education of the c. 30,000 students taking A-level Sociology       in the UK annually.
In 2007, Woodhead was appointed Director of the AHRC/ESRC Religion and       Society Programme.
In light of her research and programme role, she was       commissioned to write policy reports advising the Equality and Human         Rights Commission (EHRC) on how to approach their new mandate for         religious equality.
Her first report `Religion or Belief':         Identifying Issues and Priorities (2009; Ref.
1), which draws on her       research (pp.
iii-iv, 5-7, 10-12), has:     (a) helped the EHRC to set its research priorities, including       commissioning the report Religious Discrimination in Britain and       setting up its Religion or Belief Network, now with 500+ members;     (b) led to Woodhead advising on the EHRC briefing paper `Religion or       Belief' and guide `Religion or belief in the workplace: a guide for       employers following recent European Court of Human Rights judgments' (Feb       2013).
(c) informed the EHRC's legal interventions.
In `Religion or Belief'       (p. 30) Woodhead recommends that in dealing with clashes between equality       strands the principle of `proportionality' should be supplemented by that       of `reasonable accommodation', whereby employers should make reasonable       adjustments to accommodate people's needs to manifest their religion.
The       EHRC took forward this recommendation in its submission to the European       Court of Human Rights concerning four widely reported UK legal cases       (Eweida and others); see EHRC press release, 07/2011 (Ref.
2).
Following       the European Court's subsequent ruling, the UK government is considering       changing the law on religious discrimination and the EHRC is working with       employers and employees on interpreting and applying the ruling.
Drawing on her research on public religion in Britain, Woodhead has since       2008 been widely consulted on religion and security, e.g.
by the       Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism and (until 2009) by Paul Wiles,       former Chief Scientist at the Home Office.
She advised against conducting       intrusive research on Muslim communities when a Home Office survey of all       Muslim mosques and communities was planned, thus contributing to improved,       more sensitive security policy.
The impact of Woodhead's research has increased greatly since 2012 as an       outcome of her direction of the Religion and Society Programme, which       required her to disseminate Programme findings.
The vehicle that she and       the former Home Secretary Charles Clarke designed was the Westminster         Faith Debates of 2012 and 2013.
(Elizabeth Hunter from Theos       assisted with media relations in the 2012 series.)
The Debates were described by the Guardian's religion writer       Andrew Brown as `the most interesting and successful attempt ... to talk       about what all people believe and why this really matters' (Ref.
3).
Each       Debate pairs Programme award-holding academics with public figures to       address contemporary issues in Religion and Public Life (2012) and       Religion and Personal Life (2013) before audiences including MPs, civil       servants, journalists, think-tank researchers, teachers, and faith       communities, representing over 400 organisations.
Woodhead's research has       fed into the Debates' far-reaching impact on public discussion not only       indirectly, in that the Debates result from her role as Programme       Director, but also directly, in that her research has informed the design       of the Debates.
The Debates, whose participants have included Tony Blair, Rowan Williams       and Richard Dawkins, have: been attended by over 2000 people; been viewed       around 19,000 times on YouTube; received 1.8 million hits online, with       thousands of views each week (e.g.
4258 and 2403 in the first two weeks of       2013).
Media coverage has been exceptional: the 2013 Debates were reported       over 69 times in mainstream media (Ref.
4); for example, the 2012 debate       on religious education in schools made headlines in the Daily Mail       and Guardian (22/2/2012) and the closing 2012 debate made the Telegraph       front page (24/07/2012).
The Debates have been reported internationally in       Austria, Denmark, Germany, India, Switzerland, and the USA (Time, Washington         Post).
Viewers from over 58 countries have accessed the online       Debates, which are used in teaching in India, the Netherlands, and       Palestine.
As a result Woodhead has become a regular media commentator,       on, e.g., BBC1 The Big Questions (11/03/2012, 15/01/2012), BBC       Radio 4 (e.g.
Thought for the Day 26/12/2012, Sunday       5/5/2013); in the Guardian (e.g.
07/05/2012, 07/11/2012,       12/2/2013), The Tablet, and other venues including the 2013 Davos       World Economic Forum.
As this level of media coverage shows, the Debates have greatly         increased public recognition of religion's continuing public presence.
This is confirmed by Dominic Grieve QC MP, Attorney General: `This series       has been extremely successful in raising the level of public debate about       religion, on topics of great importance for our national life' (Ref.
5).
Again the BBC's Commissioning Editor for Religion confirms that the       Debates have `made it more acceptable to "do religion" in public.
This can       be seen in the media, from more newspaper opinion pieces to       religion-related programmes' (Ref.
6).
Further evidence of enhanced public       discourse is the extensive discussion that continues online, in, inter         alia, the Guardian Comment is Free and many blogs (New       Statesman, National Secular Society &#8212; see, e.g., 5/7/2013).
Through the 2013 Debates, Woodhead's research has had further impacts         on ongoing political debates on assisted dying and same-sex marriage.
Woodhead commissioned YouGov polls on these topics, publicised in press       releases, to inform the relevant debates.
The results confirmed her view       of the gap between the `unchurched majority' of religious people and the       `strictly religious' minority.
The results were widely discussed in the       Anglican church (e.g.
in Church Times, Thinking Anglicans, Modern         Church), in UK newspapers and on BBC news online.
The finding that       70% of Britons and 72% of Anglicans support assisted dying (discussed in New         Statesman 14/5/2013) was cited in three court cases (Lamb et al.)
requesting relaxation of right-to-die guidelines.
The Home Office's Chief       Scientific Advisor confirms that `the finding [on euthanasia] had       world-wide press coverage [and] it is hard to imagine that this will not       feed into the forthcoming debates in Parliament and elsewhere' (Ref.
7).
Woodhead's finding that most religious people support same-sex marriage       was repeated in the Evening Standard editorial of 8/5/2013 to       persuade the Cameron government to continue with the bill to legalise it.
As the Chief Scientist noted, Woodhead's finding here `has been       influential in discussion and debate which will have informed government       as the legislation has progressed' (Ref.
7).
Through its effect on the Debates, Woodhead's research has contributed to       enhanced public understanding of changing forms of religion amongst       policy-makers, politicians, journalists, the general public, and religious       communities.
As a whole, Woodhead's research has led to improved and       updated school teaching on religion; has influenced policy, especially on       equalities issues and on religion and security; and has significantly       helped to reshape media, public and political debate on religion.
