     Audience engagement with the natural world:     The 2010 audience survey of Jack Scout verified that audiences       valued the spectacle, describing the performance as "cinematic".
Live       dance and music provided an immersive experience that made the audience       "much more aware of the `natural' sound[s] of birds, wind, sawing,       plane[s]".
Choreography illustrated the morphology of plants accumulated       into a "mind blowing [...] interpretation".
Engagement with Jack Scout       as spectacle and environment was continuous with an understanding of that       place as world; thus, the sinking of the Matchless was suggested       as much from a dance in a muddy cove as a song explicitly about the       accident.
Respondents to the 2012 audience survey indicate that their       "sensitivity to the natural environment" in general or Silverdale in       particular was "enhanced".
Creation of new audiences for site-specific rural performance:     Audience responses to the show were ecstatic, describing it as "magical",       "very powerful", "completely mesmerising", "utterly outstanding",       "splendid, and of a type that is all too rare", "imaginatively-conceived,       well-researched, beautifully designed and well-performed", "one of the       best pieces of theatre I have ever been to".
Several comment that they       have been stimulated to make return visits "to find the places where       particular scenes happened", nearly 100% of respondents said they were       more likely to attend other rural site-specific performances.
Promotion of rural organisations and businesses:     39% of the audience were members of non-arts partner organizations, and       the project was partly funded by the Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty       (AONB).
The project met Arts Council England's aim of creating new       audiences for the rural arts, and Live at LICA's aim of "exploring       experimental performance in rural locations", of "engag[ing] a completely       new group of partner organisations and potential audiences", and of       "enabl[ing] members of the public to engage in meaningful ways with       contemporary, research-led practice in extended participatory projects on       and off campus".
By exploring four epistemologies the project met an       objective of the AONB by "develop[ing] and testing innovative methods of       achieving a more sustainable way of life in a protected landscape of great       beauty and diversity"; it met the aims of Lancaster City Council by       providing "cultural tourism for the district" and a "service for children       and young people" through a primary schools' performance and workshop and       the Innerworld Dialogue with Ridgway Park School.
It met ACE's aim of       involving "people at risk of `social exclusion'", and, according to the       head teacher, it "enabled [that school] to develop other projects with the       local village".
100% of our partners who responded to the 2012 Survey noted that Jack         Scout promoted "greater awareness of the Silverdale area".
A       photographic exhibition of the show was displayed at the 2010 Society of       British Theatre Designers bi-annual exhibition, with a footfall of over       4000.
Nearly 25% of respondents in the 2012 Audience Survey indicated that       after the show they visited Silverdale and used caf&#233;s and galleries; the       Partner's surveys show this contribution to the local economy.
Development for professional artists:     In the 2012 Partners' Survey, Steve Lewis stated that Jack Scout       was "one of the best things [he'd] ever done", that his "engagement with       `the rural' had changed very positively"; as a result he formed an       ensemble to further explore this.
Lisa Whistlecroft said the final piece       gave her a new approach to soundscape composition; her piece Silverdale         Sea, shortlisted for the European Sound Panorama competition and       broadcast on Deutschland Radio in 2011, grew directly from Jack Scout.
Louise Ann Wilson stated that "the project gave [her company] more       confidence to support similar projects".
The decisive effect that Jack         Scout had on these artists is attributed to techniques emerging from       Nigel Stewart's previous projects - notably with Jennifer Monson during       the AHRC-funded Re-enchantment and Reclamation, and with Louise       Ann Wilson on Still Life (2008, rev.
2009).
A spectacle was made       of nature by using movement to illustrate the morphology of plants; or       flute and clarinet to mimic songs of indigenous birds.
Nature was explored       as world by writing songs with children about their feelings whilst       playing on the heath; collecting stories about the bay from local       historians; by recording social gestures by learning from fishermen how to       work nets, tackle and tractors on the sands, from conservationists how to       mobilise bracken bashers and pitch forks on the heath.
Nature was       experienced as environment by hearing how the sound of a clarinet could       mingle with the sounds and shapes of oyster catchers and other birds at       key tidal moments, and using Monson's "logging" techniques to disclose and       distil kinaesthetic sensations of the shoreline.
Through gathering       accounts of shipwrecks and drowning, the bay was experienced as a sublime       or void place in which human life can be swallowed on the incoming tide or       sinking sands.
(784 words)
