     Activities Leading to Impact     Beyond the Castle (BTC) is a key component of the PROUD INTERREG funded       project.
BTC developed new co-design processes and tools to improve a wild, green       space within 5 minutes' walk of Lancaster City centre.
Using interaction       design, Cruickshank and 6 designers ran BTC from May to November 2012 (link).
They held 5 major events (active collaboration/idea generation) for over       700 participants, with a further 2,100 local residents attending       lighter-touch events.
The initiative was supported in the regional media, and featured in the       Lancashire Evening Post, Lancaster Guardian; Lancaster University online       news and web site; Radio Lancashire; Bay Radio and a 3 page article in       @Lancaster magazine and online.
Impact from processes:     The processes developed for BTC changed council consultation and       co-design activities.
As a public realm officer at the council noted, `before         (BTC) we would have spoken to people and done a questionnaire, now we'd         do an activity on site to draw people in.'
The paradigm shift for       the Council `is a whole new way of trusting people'.
Cruickshank       and his team are designing and implementing tools for day-to-day use by       council staff.
These range from digital resources aimed at teenagers with       smart phones, to tools that can be used in any context where idea       generation is needed to improve local outcomes.
From early 2013 these       tools have been used for various projects by Lancaster Council, resulting       in c.900 citizen-participants every month.
The approach has also been       disseminated through a major HEFCE funded programme that compliments the       Lancaster China Catalyst Project.
Impact on the Design Profession     BTC provides a model for professional designers to facilitate open, mass       creativity without sacrificing quality or workability of approach.
BTC has       contributed to this area of research by establishing 8 fundamental       principles of co-design (see Cruickshank &amp; Coupe 2013).
These formed       the basis for sessions for design professionals in the Netherlands,       Belgium and Luxemburg, and a keynote at the conference Kick Off Co-Design:       Let's Design Together       (link)       at Dutch Design Week 2012.
These principles challenged the norms of co-design; but it is the quality       of outcomes from BTC which has proved the most persuasive factor in       shifting debate.
BTC Master classes led to the initiation of the Co-Design       Caf&#233; series in Eindhoven (link).
`The co-design masterclasses by Leon Cruickshank were received with         great enthusiasm in Eindhoven, the interactive approach he designed         helped designers quickly and energetically adopt the co- design         principles that give designers of services or social design projects (as         well as many other design processes) a good basis to act upon.
This         helps designers to take up a new kind of assignment that needs active         participation of future users in order to achieve optimal and         sustainable outcomes' Project Manager Capital D, Eindhoven.
Cruikshank's research has also lead to the redesign of the post-it for       group collaboration and this `hexagon tool' is now commercially available.
Impact from Co-design Ideas Generated     From numbers of participants, depth of engagement, and innovation,       Lancaster City Council has reported there has never been a consultation       project in the city to match BTC.
The breadth and high quality outcomes of       the process are both powerful and useful to local Councils; even more so       as the current political context requires they re-structure priorities,       and perhaps in the process create a less hierarchical, more collaborative       approach to urban development.
In addition, as community engagement is a       prerequisite to heritage and lottery funding, BTC has laid the foundation       for a multi-million heritage lottery funding bid.
BTC has ensured the local community are involved in the development of       the city's castle area for the next 10 years.
The results of the co-design       process are accepted as the design brief for the City and County Councils;       it is also being used for tendering documents for master-planners, which       will plan for the space beyond 2020.
This was achieved because the ideas       produced by the communities and citizens involved were, in the words of a       Senior Planner: Regeneration at the city council `quite a wow to see         the depth and breadth of the work that's been going on and the         engagement with the local community.'
In the final exhibition over       120 people designed a solution for some of the issues and ideas documented       in the 1100 ideas from previous BTC events.
The research in this case study connects innovation in design processes,       interaction design practice, design and management theory to ensure direct       impact and benefit with potential at regional, national and international       levels.
The adoption of these tools by individuals, companies and the       public sector will embed this impact into everyday practice, in the case       of BTC for at least the next 10 years.
