     The key impact is on professionals and practitioners through the use         of research in the         development of design standards and codes, so defining best practice -         specifically in the         design of joints, components and structures comprised of GFRPs.
Secondary impacts arise         in the economic domain via increased uptake of GFRPs in         construction, glassfibre         producers, and in the environmental domain by provision of sustainable         structures.
The narrative of this impact begins when, as a result of his       expertise in pultruded GFRP joints       and structures, Turvey was invited to join the Committee tasked with the       development of the first       limit state code for the design of FRP composite structures in       construction (under the EU funded       joint UK-Finland-Sweden-France EUREKA Project No.
418).
Turvey       participated in meetings which       considered, developed and improved drafts and approved the final version       of the code and also       contributed a case study.
The latter included material property       characterisation data, beam flexural       testing and analysis, and the UK's first failure test and analysis       (using specially developed equations)       of a pultruded GFRP portal frame - all arising from research by Turvey       [see Ref.
6 in &#167;3 above].
The significance of the resultant EUROCOMP Design Code and         Handbook [see source of Ref.
6       in &#167;3] is that, for many years, it was the only limit state design       code for FRP composite structures.
Since its publication in 1996, EUROCOMP has been used to design the UK's       FRP infrastructure,       particularly the majority of its FRP bridges, which benefit the       public with essential and sustainable       communication links.
Indeed, it is specifically taken into account in the       Highways Agencies' Design       Manual for Roads and Bridges [see reference EP1 in the evidence       portfolio of &#167;5 below].
Post-2008 UK consultants Tony Gee &amp; Partners [EP2], Sinclair       Knight Merz, Gurit and Optima       Projects (in association with Network Rail) have used EUROCOMP to design       FRP bridges at       Standen Hey, Moss Canal, Calder Railway Viaduct, Foryd (first two-span       lift bridge) and Dawlish       Railway Station (GFRP copy of Grade II listed footbridge).
James Quinn       Associates Ltd, cite       EUROCOMP as the primary literature source in all of their design and       analysis reports on FRP       structures &#8212; including one for the GFRP formwork for diving boards for the       2012 Olympics Aquatics       Centre.
These consultancies state that EUROCOMP's partial factors for GFRP       materials and       design guidance on bolted/bonded joints are particularly useful.
The reach of EUROCOMP's impact extends beyond the UK.
In Saudi       Arabia, Gurit used it in the       design of 160000 m2 of sandwich panels for Haramain Station's       roof (construction 2009-14, part of       the Haramain High Speed Rail Project expected to carry 3 million       passengers p.a.
including Hajj       and Umrah pilgrims) and cladding panels for the top 200 m of the world's       tallest clock tower, the 76       storey, 601 m high Makkah Clock Royal Tower (completed 2012).
In       Switzerland it has been used to       design the sandwich canopy over the Novartis Building entrance in Basel.
Further reach is evidenced by information from EUROCOMP being       included in or influencing the       development of other national design codes &amp; guidelines, including       those in Italy (2008) [EP3a,b],       Germany (2010) [EP4], Japan (2011) [EP5a,b] and Holland (The       Dutch Civil Engineering Centre for         Execution of Research &amp; Regulation (CUR) Recommendation 96,       2003, under revision 2012) and       used in the design of over 60 bridges (including Lotharingen (2009),       Oosterwolde (2010) and       Geestmerambacht (2012)) [EP6].
The Handbook is used to       induct young engineers at Royal       Haskoning DHV in FRP materials/processes [EP6].
These examples show       EUROCOMP's wide-ranging impact and, by direct implication, that of Lancaster's pultruded       structures research.
Additional evidence of the impact and reach of Turvey's pultruded       GFRP bolted joints and structures research is its citation and use in US design guidance / codes.
The American         Society of Civil         Engineers (ASCE) Manuals and Reports on Engineering Practice No.
102       (2011) on bolted/bonded       joints cites research conducted at Lancaster in Chapters 2, 7, 8 and 9.
Much of Chapter 8, (i.e.
deformation equations and performance indices for beams and sway columns       with semi-rigid end       connections and all of the tables) is reproduced directly from Turvey's       pultruded GFRP papers [EP7]     Prior to final drafting of the US Load and Resistance Factor Design       (LRFD) Prestandard (published       Nov 2010), trial designs of FRP structures were undertaken by leading US       consultants (Robert       Silman &amp; Associates, Severud, Walter P. Moore, Arup, Gilsanz, Murray       &amp; Steficek, Hardesty       Hanover, Magnusson Klememic Associates and Alfred Benesch) to check its       acceptability and       utility.
These organisations will have appreciated the impact and reach of       Lancaster's pultruded       GFRP bolted joint and beam research through its citation and discussion in       the Prestandard's       Commentaries on Chapter 5 (Design of Members for Flexure and         Shear) and Chapter 8 (Design of         Bolted Connections) [EP8, EP9, EP10].
When the Prestandard is       published as an ASCE / ANSI       (American National Standards Institute) standard in 2013 / 2014, even       greater impact and reach of       Lancaster's research contributions will ensue amongst the US structural       engineering community.
Other indicators of the impact, reach and quality of Turvey's       research in GFRPs include:-       In the late 1990s, as part of a DTI SMART award, Lancaster undertook       initial experimental       research to characterise the structural response of beams and joints       fabricated from the StartLink       system of novel pultruded GFRP profiles for buildings.
The research was       presented at an       international conference in 2001 (and documented in 9 internal LU reports       to the originator of the       StartLink system).
In 2008, an improved system was launched as the       StartLink Lightweight         Building System Consortium with funding from the Technology Strategy       Board's Low Impact         Building Innovation programme to develop further the original StartLink       system.
The Consortium's       project concluded in 2012 with the opening of an all-FRP house made of       pultruded GFRP profiles       and stiffened panels.
The house meets Level 4 of the 2016 sustainability       criteria of the UK       Government's Code for Sustainable Homes.
The original research at       Lancaster has impacted       positively on the new StartLink Lightweight Building System system by       identifying the shortcomings       of the original profiles, and highlighting where improvements were       required.
Turvey was also involved in the development of the Construction Industry       Research &amp; Information       Association (CIRIA) Report 564 (2002) on FRP in construction which, in       addition to EUROCOMP,       has impacted on the Highways Agencies' design manual [EP1] referred       to above.
This design       manual has been consulted by all UK consultants engaged in FRP bridge       design ever since,       including the post-2008 REF period.
Lancaster has also produced the Structural         Analysis section       for the UK's Design Guidelines for FRP Bridges (sponsored by the       Network Group for Composites       in Construction (NGCC) and scheduled for publication in December 2013 /       2014).
Lancaster's FRP research outputs are communicated regularly to FRP       pultruders and composites       fabricators including J. Hartley (Exel Composites UK Ltd) and D. Witcher       (Strongwell) so that the       leading EU and US pultruders may benefit.
The latter has commented that       Turvey's (and       Mottram's) bolted joints research is unequalled.
[EP10]     In summary, since its initial publication in 1996 (reprinted 2003       and now available online) the       EUROCOMP code, underpinned by research by Turvey at Lancaster, has had a       continuing and       significant impact on the design of GFRP structures in the UK and       overseas.
This has continued       throughout the post-2008 REF period, during which it has influenced recent       code developments in       Europe, the USA and Japan and the design and construction of GFRP       structures worldwide.
