     In localised calorimetry and thermomechanometry, the probe heats any       microscopic feature of       interest so that events such as glass transitions, crystallisation,       melting and decomposition are       induced and detected.
This capability transformed SThM into a powerful new       form of analytical       microscopy with wide-ranging applications.
Meanwhile, photothermal nano-IR       is used to obtain       infrared spectra from sub-micron sized regions, and improved methods       involving chemometrics       and/or fuzzy logic enable detection of minute compositional differences       between otherwise       identical samples.
The direct beneficiaries of our research include two companies who have       successfully developed       and sold instruments based on our high spatial resolution near-field       thermal methods for analysis       and characterization.
The first range of instruments, namely the       "Micro-thermal Analyser", was       commercialized by TA Instruments Inc. (New Castle, Delaware USA).
An       improved version, the       "Nano-TA", was subsequently developed by our start-up company Anasys       Instruments.
The       second range of instruments (nano-IR, Anasys) uses the same type of       probes, combining thermal       microscopy with infrared spectroscopy to yield a new technique, namely       nano-infrared       microspectroscopy.
The research organisation TNO in the Netherlands has used the micro-TA       instrument extensively       for the microthermal analysis of durability and to determine glass       transition temperatures in       polymers.
Subsequently, Borealis who are a leading provider of chemicals       and plastics used the       instrument for quality control of polypropylene to detect inclusions and       impurities and to investigate       customer claims in the development of polymer films and packaging for the       healthcare and       electronics industries.
Our research has also led to development of       high-resolution biomedical       imaging techniques applicable to tissue engineering; drug testing and       discovery for amyloid       diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) and DNA studies.
For detection of       minute compositional       differences between otherwise identical samples, our research has also       helped develop improved       chemometrics and/or fuzzy logic.
The wider beneficiaries include a variety of scientific and industrial       end users of our technology.
Micro-thermal analysis is now being widely used commercially to visualize       the spatial distribution of       phases, components, and contaminants in polymers (Kimberly Clark),       pharmaceuticals (Molecular       Profiles Ltd., 3M Healthcare, Pfizer, AstraZeneca), foods, biological       materials and electronic       materials, nanoscale spectroscopy, electronic and heat transport       properties of novel       macromolecular systems, (such as carbon nanotubes), manipulations of atoms       and macro-molecules       into nanostructures; development and investigation of submicron- and       nano-structures       of novel inorganic and organic semiconductor materials.
For example, Tom         Eby of Kimberly Clark         Corporation, states that "`Reverse engineering based on IR is an         important application in most         industrial labs and the spatial resolution breakthrough of the AFM-IR         technique now enables this         for a wide range of materials with sub-micron features.''
Being       based upon extensive basic       nanophysics research in novel materials, our cross-disciplinary research       was also fundamental to       the development of non-invasive scanning techniques for biological and       biomedical applications.
These include studies of bio-chemical processes in plant cells; for       example, the Micro-TA has been       used to help Syngenta develop a better model for understanding herbicide       interactions with leaf       surfaces.
Meanwhile, work by Molecular Profiles Ltd. on solid dispersion       formulations using the       NanoTA in collaborations with Nottingham University and Janssen       Pharmaceuticals has led to the       development of formulations for poorly soluble drugs (such as the       anti-AIDS drug etraviri, now in       the product Intelence&#174;.
