     Impact from the research has been achieved through three main channels:       i) incorporation of our       research outputs into internationally-used models (HARMONOISE, NORD 2000),       ii) software       packages derived from our research, and iii) adoption in national policy       requirements.
Our research       outputs are now used worldwide in mapping and impact assessment of rail,       road, and wind       turbines noise with results used to plan the design and positioning of       NRDs.
The targeting of       appropriately designed NRDs is a key application of our research findings,       resulting in a reduction       of the negative impact of noise on human health and associated improvement       in quality of life       through diminished noise pollution as indicated by World Health       Organisation guidelines for       acceptable noise exposure (a).
i) Internationally-used sound assessment models: our research was       core to the development of       both the HARMONOISE and NORD2000 models (b,c).
The HARMONOISE noise       propagation       model (d) has gained acceptance in Europe for the basis of noise mapping       (e,f) and is being       adopted in other countries, for example in predicting noise from       industrial sources in Australia (g).
The importance of our research for the development of the NORD2000 model       is described by one       of the developers thus: "The introduction of Fresnel-zones in NORD2000         led to essential         improvement compared to earlier methods.
The ground effect, for example,         is calculated for each         type of ground to be found inside the Fresnel-zone and the resulting         ground effect is calculated as         a weighted average taking into account the fraction of the Fresnel-zone         covered by each type of         ground surface" (d,e,h).
Work for recently completed EU FP7 QUIESST on sustainable procurement of       noise barriers using       multi-criteria analysis, led by Dr Oltean-Dumbrava (5,6), is further       extending our impact in this area       by involving a novel method for assessing the overall sustainability of       noise reducing devices at the       roadside.
A key output of this work is a tool to support decision-making       by policymakers and       industry professionals.
In addition the work led to the publication of a       guidance manual (i) and a       further group TG4 has been set up within CEN TC 226/WG6, led by Dr       Oltean-Dumbrava, to       develop such sustainability standards.
This is the first group within CEN       TC226 road equipment to       address this issue and others are likely to follow our lead (j).
A very       large industry concerned with       the provision of roadside barriers will be impacted by the introduction of       such standards.
As an       example of market size the provision of timber barriers along a 2km       stretch of highway to protect a       residential area would cost approximately &#163;1.6m (6).
If more expensive NRD       systems were used       costs would rise up to an order of magnitude higher and, to gauge scale,       many hundreds of       kilometres of NRDs are installed across Europe annually.
ii) Commercialisation through software: the sound propagation and       noise prediction models       developed and tested in the research led to the development of six       software packages,       commercialized in over 40 countries and utilized by private enterprises,       public administrations and       academia (d, e).
The HARMONOISE model led to the development of       Predictor-LIMA, CadnaA       and the NORD2000 model to the development of ExSound2000, SPL2000,       SoundPlan and       WindPRO noise prediction software packages.
Since 2008, use of NORD2000       and HARMONOISE       models and software packages has extended from road and railway traffic       noise reduction to wind       turbine noise, as well as to evaluation of the health effects of noise       over a wide spectrum of       applications and uses, within and outside Europe (e.g.
Brazil, Australia,       Canada, Hong Kong,       South Korea, Chile, and Taiwan).
Estimates of the annual turnover generated by software retail alone is       &#8364;600k, based upon an       average market price of &#8364;1,000 per licence, three licenses sold per         annum per country with 40       countries involved worldwide.
We should also consider the added value made       by consultants using       the software.
Assuming 40% of licences are sold to consultants and they       manage three small       projects per annum worth an average of &#8364;3,000 each, we reach a       turnover of &#8364;2.16m over the       REF2014 period.
Taken together the total annual turnover generated by       software licences is       estimated to be a minimum of &#8364;2.76m.
iii) Adoption in national policy requirements: the NORD2000 noise       prediction model was       commissioned by the Nordic Council of Ministries and has been used in both       private and public       sectors (e,h) including public authorities such as the Federal Department       of Health in Canada and       Scandinavian national and local administrations.
In Denmark the use of       NORD2000 is mandatory       for strategic noise mapping.
In addition, NORD2000 is prescribed for       general use with road traffic       noise, beyond the already existing guidelines for its use for railway       noise, and, more recently, for       the prediction of sound propagation from wind turbines.
