     The research has had a documented and significant impact nationally at       the Bank of England       and internationally, upon researchers at banks worldwide who have cited       the underpinning       research conducted at Lancaster and its application by the BoE.
Impact on the financial sector:       The research has provided a solution to a problem faced by the       Macro-Financial Analysis       Division at the Bank of England.
[text removed for publication].
The       methods       developed in Liu et.
al (2007) provide practical risk transformations       which lead to more       accurate density predictions.
These methods were explained by Professor       Taylor at a Bank       seminar in London and subsequent meetings.
The Bank accepted the solution       proposed and       used it in their calculations, which were published in a publicly       available Bank working paper in       2012.
[text removed for publication]     International impact:       The methods proposed in the research papers in Section 3 and the Bank of       England report       (which included real-world forecasting and risk adjustments) have been       adopted in papers by       banks worldwide:     European Central Bank:       In Ivanova and Guti&#233;rrez (2013), employees of the European Central Bank       cited two Lancaster       papers on density methods listed in Section 3, and directly applied the       Lancaster risk       transformation methods.
An earlier paper with De Vincent-Humphreys et.
al       (2010) also cited       Liu et al (2007) as providing a risk transformation methodology.
Banco Central do Brasil:       The work was referenced in two papers by employees of the Central Bank of       Brazil.
The first       paper on recovering risk-neutral densities (2011) discusses the market       expectations based on       the research conducted by Liu et.al (2007).
A follow up paper in 2012 on       Risk Aversion, Risk       Neutral and Real World Densities uses the specific calculations that       Taylor used with the Bank       of England to produce their report.
Commissione Nazionale per le Societ&#224; e la Borsa:       CONSOB (the Italian Securities and Exchange Commission), is the government       authority       responsible for regulating the Italian securities market.
Giordano and       Siciliano (2013),       employees at CONSOB, refer to a need for risk adjustments and suggest the       methods       provided in Liu et.
al (2007) and the Bank of England report.
Mexican Central Bank:       Several employees at the Mexican Central Bank have been publishing papers       for several       years based on Lancaster's research for example Benavides         and Mora (2006), Benavides         and Capistr&#225;n       (2007) and Ysusi (2006a,       2006b,       2007a,       2007b).
A recent paper by Benavides       (2011) applies density methods to Mexico during the financial crisis and       cites Taylor (2005)       and Liu et al (2007).
Dagfinn Rime, an employee at Norges Bank (the Central Bank of Norway) has       recommended       several of Taylor's papers in a `Bibliography         of Microstructure of Foreign Exchange Markets'       (2012, see pages 15, 19 and 27).
The work has also been used in research       done in       conjunction with banks and stock markets for example The         National Stock Exchange of India.
The impact upon risk managers and other practitioners within the       financial sector is hard to       measure; although it is notable that riskbook.com recommended `Asset Price       Dynamics,       Volatility, and Prediction' as a Top Ten Book in 2005.
Impact on higher education:       In addition to impact on the banking industry, research into price       predictions has also had       significant impact on the teaching and learning of students worldwide.
They have been taught       the best known methods to make predictions about the probabilities of       future market prices for       financial assets.
More than 2,600 copies of Taylor's 2005 book were sold between January       2008 and June       2013, of which only 300 are estimated to have been bought by Lancaster       students.
The book is       often included in reading lists for courses about Financial Econometrics,       making a global       impact on the education of students.
In 2011, for example, it was a core,       main or       recommended text for the following courses:            Time Series and Financial Econometrics, Cambridge University       Advanced Empirical Finance, University of Manchester       Financial Econometrics, Birkbeck College, London University       Quantitative Financial Risk, UniversitLibre de Bruxelles       Financial Econometrics, Humboldt-Universit&#228;t zu Berlin       Financial Time Series Analysis, University of Vaasa       Financial Econometrics, University of Washington       Time Series Analysis and Statistical Arbitrage, New York University       Empirical Finance, Chinese University of Hong Kong       Stock Prices and Volatility Modelling, Victoria University of         Wellington          The contents of the book have been taught by Stephen Taylor to students       at National Taiwan       University, Taipei (2009), Norwegian University of Science and Technology,       Trondheim (2011),       the University of Auckland (2013) and the University of Queensland (2013).
