     FHC oversees maritime operations in Falmouth Bay but in 2008 commercial       activities were threatened by increasingly complex environmental       regulations and fragile stakeholder relations.
By ensuring that maritime       operations, which include anchoring and bunkering, are undertaken more       sustainably this research helped to safeguard the commercial revenues that       they generate.
The KTP increased the breadth of information available and       the extent of dissemination, as FHC annual reports in 2009 and 2010 added       new sections covering corporate social responsibilities [A] and a       sustainability section was added to the FHC website.
The value of       editorial coverage increased from &#163;130k (2008) to &#163;286k (2010) [B].
This       research generated 8 meetings with other UK ports to discuss best       practice, in depth consultations with 9 stakeholders and 70 meetings with       stakeholders.
This research created a stakeholder management system and       engaged 2400 visitors at a Maritime Museum exhibition [B, C].
Improved       stakeholder satisfaction led to a &#163;35k multi- stakeholder project managed       by FHC which employed one environmental scientist full time and released       5% of one employee's time previously spent responding to environmental       concerns.
The KTP recruited and funded a maritime sustainable developments       officer (MSDO), a role which is now commercially funded and embedded       within FHC [D].
Working with academics and the Harbour Master, the MSDO       developed a Port Sustainability Management System (PSMS) which redefined       environmental management and monitoring in Falmouth Bay as a business       process focused on strategic, tactical and operational processes.
This       reformulation clarified understanding and documentation of business       processes generating data relating to what each process involved, who       undertook it, when and why and how long it required.
The reformulated       management system empowered FHC to ensure compliance, engage proactively       with legislators and environmental interest groups, and contribute       professionally to good practice and networking [B, E].
In 2008 the       reformulated sustainability management system empowered Falmouth port to       benefit from its location adjacent to the 5' West boundary of a newly       designated Sulphur Emission Control Area (SECA) by ensuring safe,       compliant and sustainable bunkering operations in an environmentally       sensitive area.
The number of ships calling to take on bunkers before       entering the English Channel SECA trebled from 2007 to 2008.
Research by       MSDO into the environmental impacts of anchoring, bunkering and ballast       water exchange assisted compliance and by pinpointing anchoring locations       using ship Automatic Identification System data, generated new knowledge       and University projects to investigate the location of dead maerl habitats       and the impacts of anchoring [F].
The KTP funded the MSDO to engage in PISCES tidal flow modelling to       combat possible oil spills which was cascaded to colleagues throughout FHC       and GIS training to facilitate monitoring of anchoring locations which was       cascaded to two colleagues [B].
FHC took a lead role in a review of the       SAC management scheme, discharging its responsibilities as a relevant       authority under the habitats regulations.
Because of the KTP, sprayings of       quays and steps used less damaging chemicals and the water efficiency of       laundry facilities increased.
The KTP spawned trials to gain information       about the scientific impact of re-laying dead maerl beds on the integrity       of the Special Area of Conservation [G].
Monitoring and management of invasive species as part of an early warning       system helped to protect 5 jobs that harvest 60 tonnes of mussels and       oysters locally [B].
Through the KTP FHC became more environmentally       engaged, reducing fuel usage by 24488 liters (2008-2010).
The KTP helped       to protect key activities which created 2 new jobs for marine pilots [B]       and to increase annual profit from &#163;61k (pre-KTP|) to &#163;107k (end-KTP).
Evidence of improved societal trust and confidence in FHC's auditable       ability to perform responsibly, openly and accountably was provided when       the Marine Management Organization recently approved works for the       Falmouth Trial dredge application.
MSDO undertakes tasks previously       undertaken by the Harbour Master, releasing senior management time       (&#163;17kpa); provides specialist advice and information which reduces       external consultancy fees (&#163;24kpa); substantially increases publicity and       reduced advertising costs (&#163;20kpa) whilst enhancing stakeholder contact       (&#163;60kpa).
More constructive relationships with an expanded range of       environmental interest groups include Natural England who volunteered       specialist knowledge in response to proposed legislative changes.
MSDO       disseminates specialist environmental awareness training and develops       training materials for harbour users [B].
Work to develop and disseminate       a PSMS to unlock further benefits for ports throughout Devon and Cornwall       is ongoing [H, I] and potentially ports globally could benefit from this       research, which features in a seminal handbook.
