     The adoption of SSM around the world in private and public sector       institutions has delivered significant measurable benefits and also       changes in culture and mind-set that lead to better performance.
A general       indicator of the scale and range of its impact is given by a Google search       using the precise phrase "Soft Systems Methodology" which returns almost       120,000 hits including case studies (google.co.uk, October 15th,       2013).
Lancaster is the home of SSM and four mechanisms have helped create       and sustain this impact:            Teaching and publications by Lancaster and other academic institutions         (such as Australian National University, Copenhagen, Kent and Warwick).
Application of SSM to real-world problem situations, resulting in an         accumulation of practical experience.
Ongoing development of the methodology through continued action         research and practitioner sharing, es evidenced in example 4 below.
Publication of practitioner-oriented books such as Checkland and         Poulter (`Learning for Action: a short definitive account of soft           systems methodology and its use for practitioners, teachers and           students', Wiley, 2006).
The six examples below were chosen for their clear evidence of different       and current forms of impact for SSM, based on its use in the UK and other       countries.
Four are highly specific and the other two show the general       influence and impact of SSM.
Together they show the impressive reach and       significance of the impact generated by SSM.
Example 1: Mars Petcare       Following the global economic downturn of 2008 most consumer goods       companies were facing increasing pressure on margins and volume growth.
In       Europe Mars Petcare, a substantial business comprising several categories       each generating revenues of hundreds of millions of Euros, faced such a       challenge in 2009/10.
One of the categories obtained consulting support       from a team led by Dr Jim Scholes, Visiting Professor to the Department of       Management Science at Lancaster University Management School.
The team       worked with the European Head of the category to design an initiative       which brought together over 60 managers from HQ functions and country       management across Europe in a process of strategy co-creation.
For just       over 4 months the managers worked together through a series of facilitated       workshops to develop shared understanding of the challenges facing the       business; identify growth options; agree strategic direction; and then       implement country-specific plans.
The initiative helped Mars's managers re-shape the business, focusing on       the relationship between owners and their pets and re-defining the       category logic within the company and with its customers.
During 2010/11       the category management team was able to deliver tangible benefits from       their work: accelerating percentage growth of sales revenues into double       digits and achieving increased profits.
Based on this success, the new       approach was adopted globally with the aim of building a worldwide       business with revenues of over $1B by 2015.
This approach to strategy       co-creation was developed using Soft Systems Methodology (SSM) as a       diagnostic, design and learning tool.
Example 2: Tonson Adhesives       As a second example, Lui et al.
(2012) report on a study conducted in       China in which a performance management approach based on SSM was designed       and successfully implemented.
The company, Tonson Adhesives &#8212; the number       one Chinese company in the industry adhesives sector &#8212; returned profits of       RMB 100m in 2008.
As a result of the SSM project conducted by Lui and colleagues, which led       to a new performance management system, Tonson Adhesives reported a profit       increase of 50% during the year leading up to February 2010.
This is clear       evidence of real-world impact on business performance based SSM's role in       the design of systems that support improvement in organisational       performance.
Example 3: Hitachi Project Management Division, Japan       The Japanese Association for Action Research (JAAR) was established in       2003, with Peter Checkland as Honorary Chairman and Professor Kenichi       Uchiyama (Diato Bunka University) as President.
It engages in action       research with external organisations, using SSM.
Since 2003 a team from JAAR has facilitated a series of week-long,       bi-annual workshops, each for about 15 Hitachi systems engineers,       following the introduction of the Project Management Body of Knowledge       (PMBOK) standard in 2000 within Hitachi.
The aims of the collaboration       were to reduce costs, improve delivery times and make Hitachi more       competitive in the marketplace by developing a new management style for       project management.
The workshops ask engineers to reflect on their own project management       style by using the question `What does it mean to manage a project?'
This       approach revealed the importance of the qualitative or emotional side to       the project management work, allowing the PMO (Project Management Office)       in Hitachi and JAAR to encourage engineers to reevaluate the balance       between their working lives and personal expectations.
SSM has often been used in Western organisations to uncover and       understand the cultural environments in which work is conducted.
However,       in Japan, the work culture was already well understood and integrated with       everyday life.
JAAR used SSM in Hitachi to explore how this could be       theorized to provide the organization with a strategic advantage by making       the work of project managers more effective.
This demonstrates the use of       SSM by a large Japanese multinational company that wished to change its       culture to increase its success.
Example 4: SSM underpins the development of an investment             prospectus in the Australian Dairy Industry       The Lighthouse Consulting Group, based in Victoria Australia, used SSM to       develop an investment prospectus for the Victorian Dairy Extension Centre.
The DEC assists farmers in making decisions that lead to increased       profitability, and has many stakeholders.
Representatives took part in       this study, concluding that the industry was not enabling an acceptable       standard of risk management at the farm level through the use of       appropriate feeding systems.
This led to an investment prospectus that was       signed off in May 2009 and then went to investors.
This is an example of SSM's use for project development purposes, helping       stakeholders reach accommodation that leads to appropriate action.
Example 5: Linking SSM to other analytical approaches in Sweden       Holm and Dahl (2011) focus on a different use of SSM, this time as a       precursor for building patient-flow simulation models in a new Swedish       hospital that wished to optimise the design of its new Emergency       Department in 2008.
SSM enabled the team to understand and interpret       different stakeholder views, resulting in a successful design project for       the new ED.
Hospital emergency departments operate in conditions of great stress and       are rapidly changing environments on which to work.
Their performance       depends on good staff communications, on close links with other areas of a       hospital and on suitable physical facilities.
SSM     This is an example of its use as a precursor to detailed quantitative       modelling to ensure that the modelling leads to a better design by taking       formal account of stakeholder views.
Example 6: Routine use of SSM in the Defence, Science and             Technology Laboratory       The Defence, Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL) includes operational       analysis within its remit; the aim being to inform the development of the       Ministry of Defence strategy and policy and to improve cost effectiveness.
Within DSTL, SSM is in widespread use on a routine basis to support both       policy studies and cost-effectiveness work.
In illustration of this, the Chief Policy Scientist at DSTL states: `We         have been users of Checkland's Soft Systems Methodology (SSM) since at         least 2000 and continue to do so.
We expect our staff to be familiar         with its basic ideas and to employ them as appropriate either in toto or         in conjunction with other methods and approaches...Our experience is         that the SSM approach is highly valuable and enables us to make rapid         progress in our work and we regard it as a routine part of our         analytical toolkit.'
This demonstrates that SSM has become a routine method of analysis within       the large UK defence community; clear evidence of its success.
