     Independent evaluation of the programme:     LSIS commissioned an impact evaluation of the PRP by an independent       consultant (Matthews 2009).
The report highlighted the value of the       programme as an important vehicle for leadership development and capacity       building in the FE sector &#8212; `It is clear from the stories of         participants on the practitioner research programme that engaging in the         research has had a much bigger impact on them and their organisations         and communities than they ever expected, outside the bounds of the         research brief.'
The report findings demonstrated that:            Researchers felt much more confident in their leadership role, and         their commitment to FE and education had been rejuvenated;       Senior managers now placed a much higher value on practitioner         research;       Some organisations now had their own research budget for staff (as a         result of recognising the impact of practitioner research);       Mutually beneficial relationships with other colleges had been         developed and sustained; and, for some, involvement in practitioner         research had been `life-transforming'.
By engaging in research, practising FE leaders and managers enhanced       their knowledge and understanding of leadership in theory and practice.
Engagement with the research process helped to build skills, confidence       and self-esteem and increase awareness and knowledge.
It resulted in more       critical and reflective practice, enhanced teaching delivery, and more       reflexive learning cultures within the sector.
The programme provided       practitioners, as current or potential future leaders, with the       opportunity to develop their own research question(s), explore how other       organisations work, reflect on current practice, network with colleagues       across the sector, and produce findings that could stimulate       organisational change.
It enabled them to examine how they could improve       their performance as individuals, teams and organisations.
Participant led projects:     The annual research programme began with a highly competitive tendering       process in which only one third of submitted proposals were funded       (approximately 25 projects).
Each project started with a clear research       question, agreed definitions, principles, methodologies and practices.
Participants were supported throughout the programme and their report       findings identified key messages, from which conclusions and       recommendations could be made.
A particularly distinctive feature of the       programme was that projects were typically conducted by those working in       leadership and management positions.
The seniority of these research       practitioners enhanced the credibility and impact of the findings, and       meant that they were well placed to promote organisational change.
The       programme also facilitated formal staff development programmes in FE.
LSIS       practitioner research publications were used on leadership and management       programmes, and colleges accredited staff participation in research       projects as part of their continuous professional development.
The Principal of Northern College in Barnsley corroborates that `taking         part in the research and reading the research reports was invaluable as         I moved from senior management to an FE Principal's post.
Impact in         terms of the sector can be judged both anecdotally, by the number of         colleagues who have referred to the research in discussion, and from the         excitement and buzz of the national conference where much of the work         was disseminated.'
Conference and impact awards for programme participants:     The impact of the programme was showcased at the first National         Practitioner Leadership Research Conference in London in 2009, where       practitioners presented their published reports and discussed what they       had learnt on the programme.
Over 100 researchers and delegates from       across the UK attended and commented on the high quality of the       presentations.
The conference included an awards ceremony to celebrate and       commend the impact of practitioner research on (a) the researcher's own FE       organisation, (b) the local community, and (c) leadership development:     a) Impact on organisation- awarded to Stoke-on-Trent FE College       for research on leadership and disabilities which resulted in campus-wide       mandatory disability awareness training for all staff and significant       changes to the design of new buildings.
b) Impact on local community - awarded to research at Highlands       FE College, Jersey for examining the positive effects of training middle       managers in `Solutions-Focused' coaching.
In addition to alerting other FE       colleges of its value, the solutions-focused approach was rolled out to       the whole of the States of Jersey Education Service.
All primary and       secondary schools are now undertaking solutions-focused appraisal training       supported by the College, as is the States of Jersey Post Office.
The       Principal and Chief Executive of Highlands commented that the programme `output         speaks for itself, volume after volume of well researched, practical         research that has made a difference in colleges.
In my own college the         Practitioner Research Programme has changed our culture.
It has         stimulated our own research and importantly this new scholarly activity         underpins our Foundation degree programme and I know the same is true         for many other colleges who are developing their HE profile'.
c) Impact on leadership development - awarded to the Grimsby       Institute of Further and Higher Education (GIFHE) for research on       leadership and management strategies used by FE colleges in striving for       excellence.
It identified critical success factors common to successful       colleges that could be used by organisations seeking to maintain quality       during periods of rapid growth.
At GIFHE this led to improved staff       induction and management training/mentoring, and the embedding of a       college research culture.
The college also started its own research       journal showcasing work by practitioners, underpinned by a series of       research seminars.
Several reports also received commendations for impact.
Research on       employer engagement at Wigan and Leigh College explored how FE colleges       can best respond to employer needs.
As a result of the research, the       college now has a dedicated quality manager for employer responsive       provision (see also Kelly, 2007).
Research at Worcester College examined       the value of collaborative leadership in the context of `study centres',       leading to improved student retention and an enhanced learning       environment.
The Worcester report generated extensive interest, nationally       and internationally.
By 2010 more than 400 staff from over 50 FE colleges,       HEIs and schools, from as far afield as Serbia and Poland, had visited the       college to observe how the study centres operated.
Research at Oxford and       Cherwell Valley College outlined a set of recommendations for colleges in       creating multi-faith support teams, highlighting the key importance of       engaging stakeholders at all levels and in identifying faith team       ambassadors to champion the initiative.
At Sheffield College research on       learner voice resulted in much greater student confidence, to give       feedback to the college and to speak for themselves.
The publication of FE leadership reference materials:     The FE sector was previously under researched and as such little material       was available to the sector to aid development.
Through this programme a       `research footprint' was created which comprises: 12 edited volumes of practitioner         research reports (71 papers in total) and 17 individual practitioner       reports.
Hard copies of all reports were disseminated to every FE college       in England and Wales, as well as to other learning and skills providers.
Electronic copies (and executive summaries) were uploaded to the LUMS       and LSIS websites.
The edited       volumes (published or re-published within the impact period) included       extended editorial introductions by Professor Collinson and focused on key       FE leadership themes:     Vol.
1 - Researching Leadership in the Learning &amp; Skills Sector: By       the Sector, On the Sector, For the Sector     Vol.
2 - Developing Middle Leaders     Vol.
3 - Leading Quality Improvement     Vol.
4 - Leadership and the Learner Voice     Vol.
5 - Collaborative Leadership     Vol.
6 - Researching Disabilities     Vol.
7 - Leading Employer Engagement     Vol.
8 - Distributed and Shared Leadership     Vol.
9 - Leadership Development and Succession     Vol.
10 - New Directions in Leadership Excellence     Vol.
11 - Personalising Learner Voice     Vol.
12 - Leadership and Self Regulation     The 17 individual practitioner research reports also focused on       impact-related leadership themes including: Performance Management       Strategies for Organisational Improvement; Self- Regulation         for Local Authority and Third Sector Providers of Adult Learning and         Skills; Gender and Ethnicity; and Partnership         Delivery of Higher Education by FE Colleges and Universities.
Being       relevant and topical, the publications were valued and respected by the       sector and encouraged new collaborative partnerships and the sharing of       good practice between FE organisations.
Practitioners at Abingdon and       Witney, Grimsby, Hackney, North Devon, Oxford, Wigan, Wrexham and       Worcester all reported significant quality improvements in their colleges.
Impact on policy:     In November 2011 the LSIS practitioner leadership research reports were       extensively cited and discussed in the Final Report of the Independent       Commission on Colleges in their Communities by Baroness Sharp (`A Dynamic Nucleus: colleges at the heart of local communities').
This       inquiry investigated the role that FE colleges play within their       communities, and the added public value they bring in their role as       leaders of learning.
Research from the LSIS programme was cited on over 30       occasions in the final report.
Key findings of the Practitioner Research       Programme were also submitted to Ofsted and published as a report `The         CEL/LSIS Research Programme: Responding to Ofsted' (Collinson,       2008).
