     Perceptions of the role that fathers should play in their children's       upbringing have changed       markedly over the past 20 years (2).
This is evidenced internationally       through changes in       government policy (7), for example in President Obama's fatherhood       initiative       (http://www.fatherhood.gov),       press reporting on fatherhood both nationally and internationally (e.g.,       8, 9); and the growth in organizations set up especially to promote       fathering (e.g., Fathers Direct/       Fatherhood Institute: http://www.fatherhoodinstitute.org/).
Our main aim has been to inform policy       makers of the research on the contribution of fathers at several levels.
Concerning government       policy, Lewis acted as an invited consultant on the Department of       Children, Schools, and Families'       Green Paper on "Support for All Families and Relationships" (7),       advising specifically on the nature       of fathers' contributions to child development and how these might best be       supported.
This Green       paper influenced the Department of Education's annual spend (~&#163;55m).
Perhaps most importantly       it also recommended a review of employment law relating to paternity       leave; a review that is       currently underway.
More recently, Lewis was invited to present at a       consultation to members of       the Northern Ireland Assembly, Stormont, where he launched the `Man       Matters' campaign (10).
This multi-million pound initiative is focused specifically at providing       support to fathers seeking to       take a greater role in their children's upbringing.
At the same time we have provided advice and education to charities and       agencies working       with families.
In 2009, Lewis served as a member on the Advisory Group on       Fathers for the       Children's Society and he has worked with judges and family lawyers (e.g.,       at the Sieff and       Dartington Conferences), the Fatherhood Institute, Parenting NI and other       similar organizations.
Within the period 2008-2013, Lewis has given over a dozen invited talks to       institutions and public       organizations concerned with family welfare, including an invited paper at       the Annual CAFCASS       conference (11) and talks coordinated by Parenting NI (10).
We have also       been active in       promoting the findings of our own and others' research on fatherhood in       the national and       international press, radio and television: for example, BBC's The Biology       of Dads (first broadcast       2010, viewing figures 800,000) (8), as well as national (e.g., 9) and       international press.
While such attempts to effect shifts in public attitudes and behaviour       are inevitably the result       of action by a large number of people, the specific influence of our       contributions is visible in two       areas, leading the Director of the Fatherhood Institute to conclude: "Due       to the work of Professor       Lewis and his colleagues, fatherhood practice in the UK can be grounded in       UK-evidence, as well       as harvesting the most important findings from other countries" (12).
First, our Cohabitation Breakdown (13) study was commissioned by the       Joseph Rowntree       Foundation to assess why cohabitations led to so many separations and       subsequent reductions of       paternal involvement.
At that time the vast majority of unmarried fathers       had no legal status and we       reported how such men were often prevented from contact with their       children following a       separation.
We highlighted the need to confer parental responsibility to       cohabiting fathers.
The       report was the main piece of current research to feed into negotiations       between Government       Ministers with the pressure group Fathers Direct who used Lewis' research       extensively (12, 14).
The 2002 Children and Adoption Act amended the Children Act (1989),       awarding parental       responsibility to fathers named on their children's birth certificate       after 1.12.2003.
Thus parental       responsibility has been extended to an increasing number of fathers over       the past decade &#8212; see       Figure 1 (15, p.6).
This includes approximately 217,000 men per year       through the REF period (see       Figure 1).
Secondly, our DFE sponsored research into fathers' involvement in Sure       Start (6: see above)       exposed the institutional problems preventing men's participation in       programmes and specified the       conditions in which an increase in such involvement would take place.
As a       result of the report,       individual analyses (e.g., 16) (see Figure 2[a]) and work conducted at       several Children's Centres       (e.g., 12) stemmed from our research and recommendations.
For example, the       Fatherhood       Institute rolled out a programme specifically for fathers in Children's       Centres and they attribute their       tenfold increase in their turnover in the period 2005-2010 (see Figure 2       [b]) to the DfEE research       which we conducted:        Figure 2 : Fathers' involvement in the years after Lewis' DFE report         on [a] one Sure Start         programme (16) (Hinton: Number of fathers involved) [b] &#163;1000s of income         to The Fatherhood         Institute's for their work in Children's Centres (Corroborated by the         Letter from the Institute: 12).
