     Impact on Design of Coastal Flood Defences     The North Sea floods of 1953 claimed 307 lives in the UK and 1,800 in       Netherlands.
Following that event more rigorous methods of data collection       and analysis were used in coastal flood defence design.
Large budgets are       involved, e.g., the total spend on defences on the UK east coast in       Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex was &#163;250M in 10 years.
In       designing a sea-wall the key design factor is its height which needs to be       estimated to ensure an intended level of protection, which typically       corresponds to events larger than those already observed.
If the wall is       built too high then substantial unnecessary costs can be incurred: 1m of       extra height on average costs &#163;150K per 100m length of wall with the UK       having about 1000km of walls (JBA 2013).
If it is too small then the       intended level of protection will not be achieved, with flooding occurring       at a greater frequency than anticipated and hence unacceptable risks to       human life/property and effects on longer-term property value.
Therefore       major economic and societal benefits arise from optimising the wall       height.
Design standards for a typical coastal town are based on 100-year return       levels, which corresponds to the sea-wall height that would be exceeded on       average once in 100 years.
Prior to the underpinning research for this       study, different methods had been used giving estimates for the 100-year       level return level at a site that varied by between 0.5-1m for each of the       30 sites with data and by much greater larger amounts at intermediate       sites without observations (Dixon and Tawn, 1997).
Using the new methods for inference for extreme still water levels       developed at Lancaster, Dixon and Tawn (1997) produced the first set of       estimates of still water extremes for the entire UK coastline.
Following       strong recommendations from DEFRA and the Proudman Oceanographic       Laboratory (now the National Oceanography Centre) these values were used         in all designs of UK coastal flood defence designs from 1997 to 2010       (JBA, 2013).
In 2008-10 Tawn provided the statistical expertise in a       consortium with JBA Consulting, the National Oceanography Centre and Royal       Haskoning to update the methods, exploit new data, and produce a new full       set of estimates for the Environment Agency that have been used       systematically by the Environment Agency and their clients since 2010       (Environment Agency, 2011, Batstone et al 2013).
In particular, these       estimates have been used to determine the design of over 900 schemes,         total spend &#163;900M (JBA 2013), over the REF census period.
Even when the still water level does not breach the sea-wall, substantial       flooding can occur due to overtopping by waves.
Using the methods       described in Section 2 for dependence modelling, joint work with HR       Wallingford (Bortot and Tawn, 1998; Hawkes et al., 2002) led to the       software JOINSEA.
This software "set the standard for joint probability         analysis in the UK flood risk studies, and probably remains the industry         standard for joint probability assessments in coastal assessments [...]         because it is practically the only method used."
(HRW 2013).
It has       been used throughout the REF census for determining the designs of all UK       coastal flood defences to reduce the wave overtopping to an acceptable       level.
In 2010, Eastoe (at Lancaster) and Tawn with Royal Haskoning       produced for the Environment Agency joint distributions of wave       characteristics (wind-sea waves and swell waves) around the UK for more       systematic use.
Both the still water and wave estimates we produced are specified by the       Environment Agency (see e.g., Environment Agency, 2013; which refers to       these as Coastal Flood Boundary Data) as the key input into cost-benefit       analyses that have to be undertaken before any design for new flood       defences is approved.
For still water level the estimates differ from       earlier values by 20-30 cm, which, if half are lower, corresponds to an       estimate of a saving of &#163;22.5M on 450 schemes of 100m long.
Additionally the creation of these estimates saves the UK government       paying consultant fees for deriving these estimates separately for each       site (previously typically costing &#163;15K per schemes, see JBA 2013) leading         to a saving since 2010 of over &#163;6M (based on 450 of the 900 schemes       in the REF census being developed since 2010).
Stefan Laeger (Research       Scientist at the Environment Agency), writes:     "The outputs from EA R&amp;D project SC060064 `Coastal Flood Boundary         Conditions' produced a new, up-to-date national evidence base and         dataset on design sea level conditions for mainland UK.
This dataset is         now the de facto industry standard in mainland UK and has been used to         inform the vast majority of new coastal work (defences, strategies, risk         maps etc) since summer 2011.
Through Tawn's expert input, we were able         to ensure that this dataset was produced by using improved, more         scientifically robust statistical methods for analysing these extreme         conditions."
Impact on Risk Assessment of River Flooding     The risk of river flooding is managed by society through a combination of       governmental agencies and the insurance industry.
For both these types of       organisation an estimate of the likelihood of the large or widespread       flooding events is essential.
Such estimates are used by government to       help in coordinating flood mitigation activities and by the insurance       industry to assess the financial risk of claims associated with their       insurance portfolio.
These demands call for spatial extreme value methods,       for which the only viable option is the novel method developed by       Heffernan and Tawn (2004) at Lancaster and described in Section 2.
The       need for such tools is illustrated in the UK by large-scale floods in       2000-1 (&#163;1B insurance loss), 2007 (&#163;3B insurance loss with 55,000       properties flooded) and 2012 (&#163;1B insurance loss).
The UKs two leading companies working on hydrological risk assessment,       JBA Consulting and HR Wallingford (combined annual turnover in excess of       &#163;40M), have interfaced Lancaster's conditional spatial extremes       statistical work developed for rivers with hydrological models and housing       databases to produce tools to quantify the risks of spatial dependence in       flooding for the first time (e.g., JBA's portfolio analysis tool `JCALF' http://www.jbarisk.com/software,       Keef et al., 2013).
This software enables users to estimate accurately the distribution of       the annual total flood loss for their portfolio of insured properties.
This distribution is vital to the insurance companies in determining which       new properties to insure and for assessing how much reinsurance they       require to satisfy regulators.
Without having an accurate model for the       joint distribution of different rivers flooding this loss distribution       cannot be accurately estimated and hence conservatism is applied in       estimates, resulting in substantial over-estimation of the amount of       reinsurance required.
The key to this software is therefore the high       quality of the statistical model for multivariate extremes developed at       Lancaster and applied to extreme river levels jointly by research at       Lancaster and JBA Consulting,     An example of the use of this approach is that JBA Risk Management Ltd.       have developed such risk assessment products which have been licensed to       several major international clients operating in the catastrophe analysis       and reinsurance sector in the UK, France, Poland and India (JBA 2013).
Therefore there are substantial economic benefits from the research for       the insurance industry and consequently society.
