     High Court Re-Opened Formal Investigation of the sinking of the M.V.
Derbyshire: 2000     The largest UK ship lost at sea is the bulk carrier M.V.
Derbyshire that       sank in September 1980 when she encountered a typhoon near Japan.
All of       the 44 people on board were lost and no mayday was signalled.
The reason       for her sinking became the focus of a series of reports and investigations       that were carried out over the following 20 years and culminating in the       &#163;11M High Court Re-Opened Formal Investigation in 2000.
The judge, Colman (2000) paragraph 6.13, described the contribution that       the extremes values group at Lancaster made to identify the cause of the       sinking as of `absolutely fundamental importance to the outcome of this         Investigation'.
Similarly Hansard (2002) reports `Professor Tawn         concluded from that data that the flooding of both the stores and the         ballast tank&#8212;even the stores alone&#8212;could have produced sufficient loss         of freeboard to expose hatch cover No.1 to at least one hatch-breaking         wave during the typhoon on 9 September 1980.
Therefore, hatch cover         strength became crucial, not only to the safety of the Derbyshire, but         to all similar vessels, many of which are still navigating the oceans         today, thus putting hundreds more lives at risk.'
High Court Judge calls for new design standards for hatch covers of         carriers: 2000     In addition to establishing the likely cause of the M.V.
Derbyshire's       loss the Re-Opened Formal Investigation's report questioned the adequacy       of current regulations governing hatch cover strengths.
There were 99 bulk       carrier sinkings between 1990 and 1997 with 650 lives lost       (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulk_carrier)       with causes similar to the M.V.
Derbyshire.
Hatches were found to represent the most significant point of       vulnerability for bulk carriers.
Colman (2000, Para 62 of the Summary)       stated that the current international standard for hatch cover strength is       "seriously deficient in the context of present day concepts of         acceptable safety standards."
He requested further research as a       matter of urgency with the work to be carried out by the researchers from       the Re-Opened Formal Investigation - specifically by Lancaster's       statisticians, Lloyds Registry of Shipping and the Netherlands Maritime       Research Institute.
He insisted that this study should carry sufficient       authority that the International Association of Classification Societies       and the International Maritime Organisation should adopt its findings and       thus ensure that new design standards would be mandatory globally.
Lancaster's statisticians identify new design standard: 2000-2002     Funded by the then named Department of Environment, Transport and the       Regions, Lancaster's statisticians provided the entire statistical       methodology and analysis for the study to develop new design standards and       also had input into the design of the study.
The research they conducted       showed that the strength of hatch covers needed to be increased by 35%       from the previous design standards.
Ratification of a new Worldwide Mandatory Design Standard: 2003-2004     It was agreed that the 35% increase in design standard should become       internationally accepted.
The process of ratifying this change was       complex, passing through a series of meetings of the Maritime Safety       Committee and the International Association of Classification Societies,       as explained below.
Maritime Safety Committee (2002a) shows evidence of progress of the       research and Lancaster's contribution.
That report documents the committee       encouraging the International Association of Classification Societies to       rewriting URS21, the design standards for bulk carriers, regarding hatch       covers.
Maritime Safety Committee (2002b) sets out a framework for the       implementation to new and existing ships, with the International       Association of Classification Societies updating URS21 in April 2003.
The       section for URS21 states that its 3rd revision in 2003 came       about due to the work undertaken following the Re-Opened Formal       Investigation into the loss of the M.V.
Derbyshire.
The exact changes are       a revision of the method for calculating the strength formulation for       hatch covers along with the design of the hatch covers themselves.
The       exact values of this standard vary depending upon the length of the ship,       specifically whether it is over, or under, 100m.
Finally, the Maritime       Safety Committee (2004) adopted the changes and amendment was then made to       the SOLAS treaty (an international maritime safety treaty), regulation 7,       making this design standard mandatory for U.N. countries.
Quantification of Impact: 2004 onwards     No amendments to the design standard regulations have been made since       2004 and so the global fleet of ocean-going carriers operating through the       REF census period follow these new regulations.
Specifically, since 1st       January 2004, all ship builders that are members of the International       Association of Classification Societies must obey these standard       requirements and build their ships to this standard.
For all 1720 bulk       carriers built between 2008 and 12 the strength of hatch covers has been       increased by 35% from the previous design standards, and for the 5830       previously built bulk carriers hatches were strengthened and new       inspection and maintenance procedures were required (see Intercargo,       2011).
Furthermore, from 2004 the International Association of       Classification Societies decided they would apply these rules not just to       bulk carriers, but to ore carriers and combination carriers as well.
There have been no sinkings of ocean-going bulk carriers since the new       design standards were introduced in 2004, whereas on past evidence over       100 such sinkings of ocean-going bulk carriers would have been expected in       the REF census period.
This drastically improved safety record has       provided substantial benefits for the shipping industry, insurers and       governments (as illustrated by the parties actively involved in the       Re-Opened Formal Investigation of the M.V.
Derbyshire).
