     From a PhD student hypothesis in 2003, the jasmonate seed treatment has       been rapidly commercialised for use in global production, entering the       market in the USA in 2010.
Use of the seed treatment is benefitting       growers by improving crop performance and will ultimately reduce the need       for pesticide inputs into agriculture.
Commercialisation was achieved as       follows.
In 2004, after completing his NERC-funded PhD in the Lancaster       Environment Centre (LEC), Moore was awarded a fellowship from the       Horticultural Development Corporation designed to support knowledge       transfer from basic research to its applicationA.
The       fellowship included the initial development of the seed treatment that was       then expanded through the award to LEC of the NERC follow-on awardB       which also supported the initial steps of intellectual property assessment       and protection, based both in the effectiveness of the technology and the       low toxicity of jasmonic acid and its analogues.
In 2007, we submitted a patent to protect the technology (International       Patent Publication No.
WO 2008/007100).C We also assigned the       technology to Plant Bioscience Limited (PBL), a company originally founded       jointly by the John Innes Centre and the Sainsbury Laboratory, with BBSRC       subsequently becoming a third partner, so that PBL now supports technology       development for a wide range of customers (http://www.pbltechnology.com/).
We then worked with PBL to promote the seed treatment technology to       potential end-users.
There was considerable commercial interest in this       technology.
This was based partly on the mechanistic understanding that       the technology simply primed the crop to deploy its natural defence more       effectively when challenged by a pest, which was seen as reducing the risk       of pests developing resistance.
The interest also resulted because the JA       seed treatment was seen to provide a valuable new approach in a market       where the range of available control measures was becoming increasingly       limited in many countries due to regulatory restrictions on many       conventional pesticides.
In 2008, a world-wide exclusive licence for the       use of the seed treatment was assigned to Becker Underwood, an       international agrochemical company (www.beckerunderwood.com/news/becker-underwood-granted-exclusive-marketing-rights-for-patented-new-seed-treatment-technology/),       subsequently (2012) acquired by BASF (http://www.basf.com/group/pressrelease/P-12-419).
Since 2008, the companies have undertaken their own commercial       field-trials on a range of crop systems in North and South America and,       from 2010, have invested in trials required for formal registration of the       technology as a pesticide treatment under EU regulations.
Work towards       registration is also progressing in Australia, Mexico, Brazil and       ArgentinaD.
Apart from extending the geographical spread, the       JA seed treatment technology is also in development for use on maize,       wheat, rice, pulses, cotton and vegetables.D The results from       these trials are sufficiently positive for PBL to proceed with patents and       for BASF to enter pesticide registration procedures in a range of       countries.
Patents have been granted in the USA (8,115,053 (2010) and       8,507,756 (2013) which extends the scope of the claims), Canada       (2,657,057), Europe (2,066,176), Australia (2,007,274,083), New Zealand       (574,108), Japan (532,293) and Mexico (304,248).
Following the European       grant the companies have selected Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Switzerland,       Germany, Denmark, Spain, France, UK, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,       Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania and Turkey for the initial national       patents.
Applications are being examined in South Korea, Argentina and       Brazil.
Having acquired the licence, Becker Underwood proceeded very quickly to       roll-out the technology into commercial use.
The Business Development       Manager responsible for the technology at PBL has noted "This product         development timeline represents a major achievement and reflects the         strength of the innovation, the clear market opportunity .....
Within         the agricultural field PBL has never experienced such a short         development period from initial testing (and indeed filing of the patent         application) to product launch which was only two years.
"D       The commercial use of the JA seed treatment started by incorporating JA as       an integral part of their BioStacked&#174; seed technology, the subject of an       additional patent by Becker Underwood (US2012/0077674 A1).
Between 2012       and the present, Becker Underwood's BioStacked&#174; technologies, notably       their HP VaultTM product, a flagship product for the company,       which has been used primarily for soybean and peanut in the USA, with more       recent application for maize.
In February 2013, the US EPA formally       approved the JA seed treatment as a bio-insecticide in February 2013 under       the trade name TarissTM, initially for pest control on canola,       rapeseed, mustard, safflowers and sunflowers.E The EPA also       recognised the high level of environmental and health safety of the       technology by granting exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for       residuesF, accepting the claims we had made when developing the       patent.
Pesticide registration in Canada is pending approval and the       application for registration in Europe is planned for 2014.
The company       has detailed plans for the technology to be rolled-out internationally as       the patent and pesticide registration processes are completed.
When Becker Underwood were acquired by BASF in late 2012, the BASF       statement recognized the key role of Becker Underwood's innovative seed       treatments "...We are impressed with Becker Underwood's ability to         translate growers' needs into innovative, tailor-made solutions that can         promote higher yields while conserving resources....particularly in the         rapidly-growing seed treatment market, we will be able to develop         innovative solutions for agriculture..."G     It remains hard to translate this measurable impact in the agrochemical       industry in to the wider economic benefits to growers, but some initial       estimates can be made from the use of the technology to date in the US       soybean market.
Current sales represent treatments for seed sufficient to       sow approximately 2,500,000 hectares, i.e.
within two years of its       introduction the technology is now used over roughly 8% of the total area       of soybean in the USA.
Based on the company's field trial data, yield       increases of 2-7% are attainable from JA-containing treatment for soybean       seedD.
Taking the most conservative yield increase (2%) and the       most recent (2011) data from the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation       (FAO) for average yields and farm-gate price for US soybean (http://faostat.fao.org/)       such increases would represent an increase of 0.06T/ha with a value of       approx.
$25/ha.
Based on the use of seed treatment over 8% of the planted       area, this yield increase is equivalent to an increase of 135,000T in US       soybean production, with a farm gate value of approx.
$60M in this one       crop for one year alone, even with a conservative estimate of the yield       benefits (2% not 7%).
If these same assumptions are applied to the global       soybean crop, and also assuming no further increase in penetration beyond       the 8% currently seen in the USA, the use of the JA seed treatment       globally would result is an increase in annual global production of 0.4       million tonnes, worth $175 million.
Clearly, another impact that is expected to arise from the use of the       jasmonate seed treatment is a reduction in the need for chemical       pesticides used in commercial crop production.
We have always been clear       that the seed treatment will be an additional tool in the armoury of pest       control that will continue to include chemical pesticides.
However, the       effectiveness of the seed treatment in pest control, now confirmed by       independent researchH to include nematodes, provides a solid       basis for reduced pesticide use in many crops.
So far as we are aware, at       this early stage in the commercial use of the technology, there is no       quantification of any such reduction even in soybean, However, in terms of       pesticide usage in that crop, the US Department of Agriculture (USDA)       identifies six major and ten minor pests attacking the US soybean crop.
USDA data also shows that chemical pest control in US soybean involves a       suite of approximately twenty active ingredients of which six (two       organophosphates (OPs) and four synthetic pyrethrenoids) dominate.
Even       given the current use of on just this crop, modest reductions in pesticide       usage per unit area as a result of the jasmonate seed treatment would       result in substantial total reductions in input in to the environment.
These socioeconomic and environmental impacts of the jasmonate seed       treatment are expected to grow as the technology will continue to be       strongly developed by BASF for the foreseeable future.
As PBL's Business       Development Manager has said "Over the next few years it is therefore         expected that the .... impact of the JA seed treatment will be increased         substantially".D     The impact resulting from rapid take-up of our seed treatment technology       has been recognized by external bodies.
Prof Alan Thorpe, then Chief       Executive of NERC, also said "We're pleased our follow-on funding has         allowed this research to be developed into a commercially useful         technology.
This is a casebook example of how we envisaged the scheme         would work at the outset.
"I The technology was featured       in NERC's Planet EarthJ as an exemplar for successful follow-on       funding and was also highlighted in the NERC annual report for 2008-9K.
It was also recognised in the 2012 white paper on Innovation and Research       Strategy for GrowthL as a highlight of the impact of       RCUK-funded research.
