     As the global chemical industry has grown rapidly over the past 5 decades       (global chemical output was valued at US$ 171 billion in 1970; by 2010, it       had grown to US$ 4.12 trillion) so has the need for evidence-based safety       assessment and regulatory guidance to protect human health and the       environment.
We have pioneered the use of environmental inventories, mass       balances and chemical fingerprinting to connect emission sources and their       transfer through food chains.
As such, our body of research has provided       global leadership in the following three areas of impact.
Development of the UK position and strategy on dioxins that guided         European risk assessment regulations     Over 330 million tonnes of waste are produced annually in the UK.
With       restricted landfill capacity, disposal of municipal solid waste (MSW) by       controlled high temperature incineration with energy recovery (MSWI) is a       critical option economically and environmentally.
MSWI is a cornerstone of       UK and European policy, currently accounting for 15% of the UK MSW       disposal (Defra, 2013 Incineration of Municipal Solid Waste (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/incineration-of-municipal-solid-waste).
In 2010, MSWI provided 6.2% of the UK's total renewable electricity       generation.
However, in the early 1990s, MSWI was under threat as new       emission standards on dioxins were proposed across Europe.
There was a       belief that MSWIs were responsible for enhanced human dioxin exposure.
Our       work on dioxin emissions (Section 2.i &amp; ii), chemical fingerprinting       (Section 2.i, 2iv &amp; 2v) and food-chain models (Section 2.iii) provided       a quantitative link between environmental concentrations and human       exposure, and pioneered an approach that provided context from which to       quantify the contributions of MSWIs.
Our evidence provided the necessary       context (Section 2ii) in which to place the incremental contributions       which incinerators make to ambient levels and exposure and confirmed that       correctly operated incinerators made a minor contribution to ambient       levels and exposure,A ensuring that this disposal route       continues to represent a vital part of energy generation mix since then.
Research underpinned the 2012 UK National Implementation PlanB       for the Stockholm Convention on POPs - the most important global treaty to       protect human health and the environment from the adverse effects of POPs.
According to DEFRA, LEC's work ".. has underpinned the UK position and         evidence base and consequently provided leadership in International         Chemical's management"C.     Maintaining the controlled utilisation of sewage sludge (biosolids) on         agricultural land as a safe and effective practice to re-cycle carbon         and nutrients       In the UK, ~1.6 million tonnes (dry solids) of sewage sludge (the solid       waste derived from waste- water treatment) is produced a year, of which       50% is currently recycled and applied to agricultural landD.
Use of sewage sludge re-cycles valuable organic matter and nutrients       (principally nitrogen and phosphorus) back to the soil.
However, in the       late-1990s, sludge-to-land disposal was under threat due to concerns about       its potential contribution to environmental and human exposure to organic       chemical contaminantsE.
In 2001, new legally enforceable limits       for selected organic compounds in biosolids were suggested by the EU that       &#8212; if enacted &#8212; would have effectively prohibited recycling to land.F       The economic and environmental implications of this would have been huge.
In the UK alone, annual costs for the water industry for disposal would       have trebled (from &#163;80M to &#163;240M a year).
The need to use alternative       fertilizers would have cost UK farming approx.
&#163;2 billion a year and the       opportunity to re-cycle ca.
24 million tonnes of carbon, 4 million tonnes       of nitrogen and 2.4 million tonnes of phosphorus from sewage sludge would       have been lost (Water UK 2004).
Our research has played a key role in       ensuring that land disposal of sludge remained possible.
To quote a       special advisor to the Waste and Resources Action Programme (WRAP) "A         large body of evidence to support safe land disposal was pioneered by         Jones and his team at Lancaster, specifically in terms of persistent         organic pollutant fate and behaviour.
The evidence of processes and         models of chemical fate played a large part in developing the UK and         European risk-based approach to land disposal of sludge."G.
This impact was achieved as follows.
Between 1994 and 2008, we secured support (&#163;2.6m) from the then Ministry       of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, then Department of the Environment,       and the Water Industry, to provide a complete scientific assessment of the       significance of organic contaminants in biosolids, their inputs to the UK       agricultural system relative to other sources, and the potential to       transfer to ground- waters, crop plants, grazing animals and the human       food-chain (Section 2ii, 2iii).
Through more than 50 peer-reviewed       publications, and workshops held to inform interested parties in the UK,       Europe and elsewhere, we challenged the need for routine standards, the       selection of compounds for standard-setting and provided scientifically       defensible evidence that existing limits to applications based on the       heavy metal content would safeguard environmental concerns.
Our evidence       on organic contaminants represented key cited data for European       decision-makingF and so continues to underpin recycling of       biosolids to land across Europe where agricultural reuse accounts for       about 40% of overall sludge production.
Further, our findings highlighted       that biosolids would make only a minor contribution to human exposure via       crop plants, but that the surface application/spraying of sludge onto       grassland could lead to transfers of persistent and bioaccumulatory       compounds to meat and milk.
Since 2001, our research and its policy uptake       across Europe has ensured a sustainable risk-based approach has been       adopted that encouraged routine application of biosolids to land via       evidence-based codes of practice (Water UK 2004 and via later guidance       documentation Water UK 2010)D&amp;H. Thus, the impact of our       research continues, helping to enhance yields, save on landfill and       incineration, whilst recycling a growing waste product into a valued       resource.
Defining and guiding the regulation of flame retardant chemicals under         the Stockholm Convention.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are       a key group of flame retardant chemicals.
Our research into the       atmospheric transport and bioavailability of deca-bromodiphenyl ether or       Deca- BDE (see Section 2i, 2iii, 2iv &amp; 2v) supported maintaining its       use while banning other PBDEs whose detrimental effects on human health       and the environment exceeded their socio-economic benefit.
Deca-BDE is       widely used in electrical and electronic goods found in households and       offices (especially in high impact polystyrene (HIPS) casings), in       vehicles and in certain textiles and fabrics.
In 1994, the European       Commission Regulation 1179/94 listed Deca-BDE in the Priority List 1 as a       compound to potentially ban and designated the UK government as the Member       State rapporteur for the environmental assessment.
In May 2009, the UK EA       released the Environmental Evaluation Report of Deca-BDEI The       final risk assessment document (EA, 2009) cited Lancaster research as       evidence for the global distribution of these chemicals.
The European       Commission's Communication on the risk assessment of Deca-BDE confirmed       that the Member States scientists `have completed the risk evaluation         activities with regard to man and the environment" for Deca- BDE and       that there are no significant risks to the environment or human health       which would justify risk reduction measures'.
Maintaining the use of flame       retardants has positive net benefits reducing the number and impact of       fires.
In Europe alone, the European Commission has estimated a 20%       reduction of fire deaths as a result of the use of flame retardants in the       past 10 years.
An EC report demonstrated that 2,926 Europeans lost their       lives in 2005 in domestic fires, which in economic terms, this is       equivalent to about &#8364;12.6 billion or 0.17% of GDP.
http://ec.europa.eu/consumers/safety/news/flame_retardant_substances_study_en.htm.
On that basis, a 20% reduction in deaths due to the continued use of       Deca-BDE flame retardants would represent an annual saving of almost 600       lives and &#8364;2.5 billion.
In addition to these three specific examples, the global impacts of our       world-leading research has been facilitated through Sweetman's leading       role in defining and developing the UK National Implementation Plan since       2007B and his participation in annual meetings of the UN/ECE       Task Force on POPs on-behalf of Defra.
In this way our long-term       monitoring data, modelling approaches and fundamental process-based       research, continue to provide evidence and policy advice directly to the       Parties of the Stockholm Convention.
Sweetman's promotion to Senior       Lecturer during the REF period is both recognition of his contribution to       delivering high-level impact from LEC's research and an investment to       ensure that our research will continue to deliver impact in the future.
Our investment in new analytical facilities will also ensure that our       research continues to provide the evidence needed to balance the       restriction of some persistent chemicals with the need to ensure chemicals       whose benefits outweigh their risks remain in use, contributing valuable       economic and society benefits.
