     LEC's research into catchment and flood modelling has resulted in       substantial improvements in modelling hydrological risks world-wide,       resulting in significant economic and societal benefits.
One of the most       important hydrological risks is flooding, which causes huge damage       globally, leading to enormous financial and human costs.
Flooding is       managed through a combination of investment in flood defences, development       planning, insurance and emergency or disaster responses.
All these       activities depend on accurate and detailed flood mapping or real-time       forecasts, both based on computer modelling.
Governments and insurers       require flood models at multiple scales, from national assessments down to       local modelling in urban environments.
Delivering such models is a       significant science challenge because flooding involves many factors that       control the occurrence, magnitude and timing of any given event.
Lancaster's developments in environmental modelling have been at the       leading edge of applying uncertainty concepts to risk models, and have       been applied world-wide by a range of end users.
However, for this case       study we will focus on one specific example in which well-documented       impacts delivered by a commercial research user can be directly attributed       to Beven's research.
Tools for operational flood forecasting typically predict the depth of       water at specific locations on a river, but for planning and insurance       purposes it is much more important to have two-dimensional (2D) maps of       potential flood risk.
To produce the most realistic mapping possible       demands 2D dynamic hydraulic flow models, which are computationally very       intensive, something that constrained widespread application by industry.
However, these constraints were lifted through insights resulting from       Beven's research on uncertainty methods which gave a stimulus to apply       parallel computing techniques for hydrological modelling (see Section 2).
This is summarised in the following timeline of some of the key       developments.
1993-1996 Beven's fundamental research on uncertainty methods       includes pioneering use of parallel computing in environmental modelling       (references 3 &amp; 4 in Section 2), including in PhD research by one of       Beven's students, Rob Lamb (1993-1996).
1996.
Lamb graduates and maintains links with Lancaster research       on risk and uncertainty     2002.
Lamb joins JBA, a consultancy working in flood risk       managementA which has its own in- house 2D flood inundation       model, JFlowB.
2005-2007.
Drawing on his Lancaster research Lamb exploits       mass-market graphics processing units (GPUs, parallel processors designed       for computer graphics), allowing JBA to run flood models up to a thousand       times fasterC,D.
2006 onwards.
JBA successfully apply JFlow GPU (see evidence of       impacts below)D.     2009-2011.
Lancaster and JBA demonstrate use of JFlow within the       GLUE framework in the EPSRC-funded FRMRC project to produce the first       uncertainty-based flood maps, including Google earth visualisations.
Workshops run with EA, consultants, and town planning staff under       Catchment Change Network to disseminate the advances.
In summary, co-ordinated fundamental and technological advances, driven       by Lancaster's pioneering research and Lancaster-trained personnel, were       the enabling research that led JBA to develop the world's first       commercially successful GPU-based flood model, and Lancaster to produce       the first probabilistic flood risk maps.
JBA's software system is now       being used world-wideB,C.
While the major impacts of JFlow are       undoubtedly on those communities and individuals vulnerable to flooding       (see below) it is worth noting the commercial success of JBA as a UK       company.
Since its formation in 1995, it has grown to become a major       employer of environment risk analysts, with more than 50 staff directly       employed in applying JFlow through JBA Risk management LtdD.
Revenues relating to JFlow are currently around &#163;3 million annually, and       the company's annual turnover overall is now approximately &#163;13 millionE.
In 2012, JBA was a finalist for the Royal Academy of Engineers (RAEng)       MacRobert AwardF for innovation, for its use of GPU processing       technology in JFlow.
This award "seeks to demonstrate the importance of       engineering and the role of engineers and scientists in contributing to       national prosperity and international prestige".
In selecting JBA as a       finalist, the RAEng recognised JFlow for "outstanding technical         innovation with benefits to the community and commercial success".
Know-how gained through Lancaster research was instrumental to this       success, which has enabled JBA to become a world leader, modelling more       rivers in more locations than any other company, for private clients and       government agencies in the UK and elsewhereD.
JFlow delivers maps and analytical products underpinning many assessments       of flood risk in the UK and beyondF.
In England, the       Environment Agency's National Assessment of Flood Risks (NaFRA) 2009       estimates that one in six homes are at risk, with annual damage costing       more than &#163;1billion.
Following major floods in 2007, Sir Michael Pitt's       review included the urgent recommendation for improved flood mapping, in       particular for floods caused not by rivers bursting their banks but by       overland runoff, and the incorporation of prediction uncertainties into       flood forecasting and planning.
This type of mapping had not been done       comprehensively, partially because of the high computational cost.
However       JFlow-GPU allowed JBA to produce the first national surface water flood         map, which JBA licensed to the Environment AgencyG.
"JBA       has subsequently delivered two major updates for the Environment Agency's       national surface flood mapsD,H.
JBA also used JFlow for reservoir         inundation maps meeting Government's strategic needs under emergency       planning legislation, modelling potential impacts from breaching of 2100       reservoirs in the UKH - This provides information necessary for       public security at one tenth of the cost of alternative modelling       approaches also testedE.
The RAEng noted that "JBA Consulting's flood risk modelling system,         JFlow, has become ... an essential tool for the UK's insurance industry"I.
According to JBA, in 2013 "GPU-based JFlow software is now used by 70%         of UK and 80% of Irish Insurers, including the top five UK insurers by         market shareD.
Maps produced using JFlow were described       by leading insurer Aviva as "revolutionary"J.
At a time when       many householders face problems obtaining household insurance due to flood       risk, a major societal benefit arising from the improved precision and       confidence delivered by JBA's use of JFlow has been to allow insurers to       qualify more than 600,000 properties in flood risk areas for insuranceK.
With the productivity gains realised through GPU parallel technology, JBA       has also been able to develop national flood maps for Ireland, France,         Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Belgium and         LuxembourgC,K.
The lower cost of using JFlow instead of       more "traditional" approaches makes it ideal for modelling flood risk in       developing countries, where flood mapping has previously been uneconomic.
A prime example is the response to major flooding in Thailand in 2011.
This was one of the five costliest natural disasters in modern history       (with World Bank estimates of USD45.7 billion economic losses and some 1.5       million homes and other buildings affected).
JBA "was able to respond         by using JFlow to produce flood maps of the whole country within four         months"E. This mapping helped to provide credible       information about flood risks that has been taken up by insurers and helps       to underpin the marketL     While JFlow's adoption of parallel computing technology forms a focussed       case study of the impact of developments driven by Lancaster's research,       there are other cases where our research has been at the leading edge of       applying risk and uncertainty concepts to floods and flood risk.
One       example is the incorporation of Lancaster's flood forecasting methods into       the Deltares flood early-warning systemM that is "... applied         as the primary operational flood forecasting tool used by flood         management authorities in basins across the continental United States         and Alaska, in England and Wales, Scotland, Ireland, Netherlands,         Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Taiwan, Pakistan, the         Zambezi basin, Ghana, Canada, Colombia, Indonesia, Bolivia and by the         Mekong River Commission"N. Impact is still growing, for       example new knowledge and understanding is informing new industry user       guidance, such as the CIRIA (Construction Industry Research and       Information Association) Framework for assessing uncertainty in fluvial       flood risk mapping, Report C721 (in press, 2013) and directly to end-users       via the Catchment Change Network.O     Based on pioneering research, the appointment of LEC-trained individuals       to key posts with stakeholders working with the water industry, and       on-going collaborative research, Beven's research has delivered the       tangible benefits that we anticipate that continue to grow in the future.
