     Roy's groundbreaking research on Bluetongue and related orbiviruses has       laid the foundations for fundamentally new vaccines.
Existing vaccines for       some BTV serotypes are available as relatively crude preparations which       carry serious risks; for example, a live attenuated BTV vaccine which has       been in use in Africa for many years can cause severe clinical signs of       disease in European sheep breeds.
Affected sheep can even infect feeding       midges, with the possibility of transmission to non-vaccinated areas.
As a       result, the use of these vaccines in Europe is not recommended.
A direct result of Roy's research was the provision of material for a VLP       vaccine for BTV which would carry no such risks.
In 2011, Roy formed a       commercial partnership with BI, a pharmaceutical company in Germany, with       a view to testing whether a VLP Bluetongue vaccine based on her patented       technology could be produced on a large scale.
After the positive outcome       of these initial tests, BI performed several clinical trials with two       different vaccine candidates, both in sheep and cattle (2012-2013).
The       fact that the manufacture of VLP-based vaccines does not require       containment level 3 and hence needs fewer precautions during production is       a significant commercial advantage for the production of the vaccine and       for the company.
The results obtained from these trials were `excellent',       according to BI, and the company has declared itself `very confident' that       it will be able to market this `highly innovative vaccine against       Bluetongue disease' within the next few years.5.1 BI plans to       manufacture VLPs of several European strains initially, each developed by       Roy's team at LSHTM.
Through their work on Bluetongue, Roy and colleagues pioneered and       delivered proof of concept for the VLP technology for vaccine development.
This has been generally available to all scientists5.2and has       contributed to a number of other VLP protein-based vaccines, including       influenza, SARS, ebola, FMDV and others.
VLPs have been used for the       development of an influenza vaccine, with the US company Novavax       announcing in March 2011 that it had been awarded a contract by the US       Department of Health and Human Services for the advanced clinical and       manufacturing development of VLP vaccines for the prevention of seasonal       and pandemic influenza.
The first phase 1 clinical trial of its VLP       vaccine candidate for the avian-origin A(H7N9) virus was announced in July       2013.5.3     As part of her work on Bluetongue, to address the poor performance of       current attenuated vaccines, in 2011 Roy began overseeing the development       and trial of a polyvalent vaccine effective against most serotypes based       on the unique reverse genetics system pioneered in her research.
This work       has been carried out in collaboration with EU veterinarian partners (BTV       reference laboratories in France, the Netherlands and Germany).
The       vaccine has provided full protection in challenge studies carried out in       2011 and 2013 (Matsuo et al.
; Celma et al.
)5.4 and has the       capability to uniquely offer most of Europe's estimated over 150m sheep       and cattle population cross-serotype protection.
Several commercial       partners have already shown an interest in producing and marketing the       vaccine including DELTAMUNE, Pretoria, South Africa.5.4     During and after the UK Bluetongue outbreak in 2008, Roy contributed to       the understanding of the virus and its effects among the general public by       giving a number of press interviews.5.5.
Her work has been       publicised in media directed at farmers.5.6She has also       featured in the scientific and official press.
Professor Douglas Kell,       BBSRC Chief Executive, said, `This is an exciting development and offers       great potential for future vaccine development.
This approach could allow       us to make safer and more effective vaccines against a range of viral       diseases";5.7 and a BIS press release noted.
`A research team       led by Professor Polly Roy ... has recently reconstructed a Bluetongue       virus in a test tube ...
This is an important step in vaccine creation.
'5.8
