     Nature of the Impact: As the sole contribution to 2009 "The       Stockholm Conference" of the Swedish Presidency, the LSE's Report [4]       served as the basis for extensive discussion that led to the EU Council       request that the Commission "within 24 months, develop a comprehensive       action plan, with concrete proposals concerning incentives to develop new       effective antibiotics" [A].
From this stage on there was extensive       engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders.
The LSE Report served as a       pre-conference document for review by leading US academics, industry       representatives from both small and large companies and associations       (including AstraZeneca, Basilea Pharmaceutica, and the European Federation       of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations), government and regulatory       officials (including those from DG Enterprise at the EC; UK Health       Protection Agency), and key representatives of international and       non-governmental organizations (including the WHO).
The importance of the       report was acknowledged by the Swedish Ministry for Health and Social       Affairs [B], and was officially presented by the Swedish Presidency of the       Council of the European Union in the latter half of the Stockholm       conference.
It was published in 2010 by the WHO as a book [2].
Following the Conference, the Swedish Prime Minister proposed to the US       President the formation of a Transatlantic Taskforce with the European       Union (Transatlantic Taskforce on Antimicrobial Resistance &#8212; TATFAR) to       encourage global research and development of new antibiotics, to address       antimicrobial resistance, and to push for legislation.
The formation of       this taskforce &#8212; signed into effect by Swedish Prime Minister Reinfeldt of       Sweden and US President Obama &#8212; was explicitly intended to build on the       LSE Report [C].
The LSE work was also cited extensively in the TATFAR's       findings [D].
Further evidence of engagement with the recommendations of the LSE Report       comes from Professor Otto Cars, Director of the Swedish Strategic       Programme Against Antibiotic Resistance, who in 2010 described the work as       "pioneering" and emphasized that it would have "a marked influence on       future development in the field"[E].
In 2009 and 2010 the LSE work also       received further significant international media coverage [F, G].
And in       the April 2011 edition of the journal Nature, the authors of a       paper on the need for action in re-igniting antibiotic research concluded       that the LSE recommendations for a "push-pull" response are a "clear       front-runner" in the possible courses of action."
[H]     Two of the LSE's specific recommendations have been implemented.
First,       the LSE research was presented on more than ten occasions to key       stakeholders in Sweden, London, Washington DC and Brussels over the period       2009-2011, focusing on the need for public-private risk-sharing at       critical stages of antibiotic research and development, particularly that       of clinical trials.
In early 2012 the public-private partnership between       the European Commission and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical       Industries and Associations (EFPIA) &#8212; the Innovative Medical Initiative       (IMI) &#8212; announced an (equally) shared commitment of &#8364;220 million for the       development of new antibiotics, intended to facilitate partnerships       between academic and industry researchers focused on new antibiotics and       to share the risks of clinical trials [I].
Second, the recommendation for regulatory reform to increase the rewards       to the industry by giving a greater measure of market protection via       intellectual property extensions was discussed and cited in expert       testimony given in the United States Congress in 2010 and again in 2012       [J].
Such testimonies were crucial to the passing of bipartisan       legislation in mid-2012, which established greater market protection for       vital new antibiotics reaching the market via intellectual property       extensions for data generated.
(The "GAIN Act" of S. 3187, 112th Cong.,       2nd Sess.)
In addition, in 2011 the research provoked discussion in the arena of       national defence in the US [K, L].
It was presented within an expert panel       at the US Institute of Medicine's workshop on medical counter measures to       terrorism that is generally accepted to have opened the door for the U.S.       Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) &#8212; best       known for developing vaccines and therapies as medical countermeasures to       bioterrorism threats &#8212; to award a series of contracts for antibiotic       research.
The work was also picked up by major industry players who had       not been part of the original "Stockholm" group &#8212; demonstrating wider       industry acceptance of report findings and recommendations [M].
Today the debate over a new incentive structure to promote research on       and development of new antibiotics is still underway in the US and within       the European institutions.
The work of the Unit has been the first to       explore how this might be done and continues to lead the debate.
It is       undertaking new research funded by the Pew Charitable Trust in late 2012       ($150,000) on how to disentangle the supply- and demand-side bottlenecks       currently preventing badly needed diagnostics for bacterial infections       from making it to the market.
Wider Implications: Millions of cases of resistance to antibiotics       occur each year, adding to the burden of disease.
It is estimated that       annual hospital deaths from antibiotic resistant pathogens already tops       25,000 patients in the EU alone.
The Unit's work has helped to overcome       some of the traditional market failures associated with the development of       new antibiotics and has contributed to important policy changes in Europe       and the USA.
By improving incentives to R&amp;D in new antibiotics, the       Unit's research should assist with reducing levels of both morbidity and       mortality in Europe and beyond.
