     Two decades of research at LSHTM have made a vital contribution to       successful efforts to reduce       the number of deaths from malaria.
Using WHO methods of estimation, it can       be estimated that       approximately 1m malaria-related deaths were prevented by LLINs between       2008 and 2013,       mostly among African children.5.1, 5.2 Although it is clearly       impossible to quantify the contribution of       LSHTM research to this development with precision, the leading role LSHTM       has played in this       field gives an indication of its key role in achieving this impact.
LSHTM research involving experimental huts has made a direct impact on       the WHO Pesticide       Evaluation Scheme (WHOPES) whose authority in terms of the standardisation       and quality control       of ITNs is accepted by industry and donors.
The experimental hut         methods and methods of ITN       field evaluation developed by LSHTM are described in WHO's Guidelines         for Laboratory and Field         Testing of Long-lasting Insecticidal Nets (2013).5.3, 5.4       On account of his research expertise,       Rowland played a leading role in drafting these guidelines5.4       and most of the techniques are now       too standardised for this second version to cite their origins.
LSHTM's       influence is still visible       however, in the guidelines' use of Curtis' diagram of an experimental hut       (p.17) and LSHTM's       washing, field testing and quality control methodologies.
Much of WHOPES's work on ITNs prior to producing these guidelines       involved evaluating a large       number of datasets from field research in Africa, most of them produced by       LSHTM and/or the       French IRD (Institut de recherche pour le d&#233;veloppement).
Overall, LSHTM       contributed to the data       portfolio of 9 out of 11 LLIN products evaluated by WHOPES.5.3       The key role of the WHOPES       process is that it provides donors with a guarantee of product quality and       reliability; without this       guarantee, the very rapid scaling-up of LLIN procurement in the 2007&#8212;2010       period (&gt;140m nets       procured in 2010) would not have been possible.
The importance of this       guarantee is illustrated by       the fact that the Global Fund will not allow its funds to be used to buy       nets not recommended by       WHOPES.
The risk assessment carried out by Lines and collaborators3.3       highlighted the fact that WHO was       still lacking a formal and documented position on the safety of ITNs.
The       LSHTM work prompted       WHO to publish a general review of safety aspects and then to employ the       same team of       toxicologists who had worked with Lines to develop an extended generic set       of risk assessment       methods (revised edition 2012), using the same approach and format as in       the published paper.
This document (which also cites the original 2001 paper) gives       manufacturers of ITNs a protocol to       follow with regard to toxicology and safety.5.5     WHO's Global Plan for Insecticide Resistance Management in Malaria         Vectors (GPIRM), published       in 2012,5.6 represents a radical shift in technical strategies       for malaria vector control, and its       implications will take many years to implement.
The plan quotes very       little actual data, but in       arguing that resistance can reduce effectiveness of vector       control, it relies heavily on 3.4, and       reproduces a figure from that article.
WHO's technical recommendations for insecticide resistance management         strategies, which       form the technical basis of the GPIRM implementation plan, were agreed by       a group of experts       convened by WHO in 2010, including Lines and Rowland.
The meeting report5.7       quotes 3.4 as a       basic source.
The meeting concluded that the use of mixtures of dissimilar       insecticides was one       of the most promising possible methods of resistance management, as had       been shown to be the       case by LSHTM research, and that manufacturers should be encouraged to       develop such       products.
This recommendation was then included in the GPIRM plan5.7       and several manufacturers       have since started developing such `mixture' products, for example       Japan-based Sumitomo       Chemical5.8 and Swiss-headquartered Vestergaard Frandsen,       makers of Permanet 3.0.5.9 In 2010,       German chemical giant BASF announced an agreement with LSHTM and the       Innovative Vector       Control Consortium to develop a new generation of malaria prevention       products based on the       BASF insecticide chlorfenapyr, including a new LLIN;5.10 this       decision drew on formative work by       Rowland's group since 2003.
Although these products are not yet in public       health use, they have       entered the WHOPES evaluation process and this manufacturers' investment       represents a       substantial commercial impact in itself, and clearly indicates that       manufacturers expect these to       gain significant market share in the next generation of vector control       products.
