     Berthoud's research has had impact across government departments and       agencies, the third sector, and the judiciary.
Provided here are examples       of the impact of his work on: the Department for Work and Pensions; Upper       Tribunal judges; the Equalities Review and the National Equality Panel;       the Office for Disability Issues; and the Citizens Advice Bureau.
Influencing the work of the Department for Work and Pensions     Berthoud gave two presentations to officials in the Department for Work       and Pensions (DWP) between 2008 and 2010.
The presentations were based on       his work on employment penalties suffered by disabled people, and changes       over time in employment trends among disadvantaged groups.
A former       Economic Advisor at the DWP has confirmed that Berthoud's presentations       offered new findings and explanations on key topics, and that he brought       the British Household Panel Survey to the DWP's attention.
The former       Economic Advisor goes on to state that "Richard's presentations, his       research papers and his help and guidance have helped to influence policy       on labour market interventions for disabled people and those with health       conditions within the Department" [corroborating source 1].
Providing analysis and expertise for the Office for Disability Issues     Berthoud has been an active member of the Analytical Advisory Group which       developed the Office for Disability Issues' (ODI) evidence base for the       Government's disability strategy (known as "Fulfilling Potential").
This       involved detailed comment on the whole of the ODI's draft publication, as       well as specific advice on analytical issues, and new bespoke analysis of       employment penalties for inclusion in the published report (2013).
A       senior member of the Disability Employment Strategy Team at the ODI has       confirmed that Berthoud's research profile and expertise were the reasons       for him being asked to contribute to the evidence base and that his       publications were reviewed by the team in the early phases of its       development [corroborating source 2].
He attended a number of meetings       throughout 2012, and the report, Fulfilling Potential: Building a         deeper understanding of disability in the UK today, was published in       February 2013.
This report cited his work on disability employment       penalties (2008) and trends in the employment of disabled people (2011a)       [3].
Informing the judiciary     Berthoud was approached by an Upper Tribunal Administrative Appeals       Chamber judge in 2011 to give a keynote speech at a judicial training day.
The audience consisted of around 25 Upper Tribunal judges and 10       registrars.
The judge who invited Berthoud to speak did so based on       reading his `Trends in the employment of disabled people in Britain' ISER       Working Paper, and he also stated that he made the decision due to       Berthoud's reputation as the "top social scientist in this field" [4].
According to the judge, Berthoud's presentation was "very well received"       and prompted debate from the audience [4].
The rationale for inviting       Berthoud to speak was that he could provide an understanding of the       broader context of the changes to the ESA benefit system.
The judge has       explained that Berthoud was successful in fulfilling this aim and that his       presentation "was extremely useful in furthering our understanding of the       wider social context and in particular the underlying reasons for trends       in receipt of incapacity for work benefits" [4].
In addition, the judge       confirmed that positive feedback was received from the participants in the       session, including praise for Berthoud's focus on detailed statistical       issues as well as the broader picture he gave of incapacity benefits [4].
Informing the Equalities Review and the National Equality Panel     Berthoud's research on employment penalties faced by disadvantaged social       groups (2008) has informed the work of the Equalities Review (ER) and the       National Equality Panel (NEP).
The former Head of the Secretariat to the       NEP and Lead Analyst for the ER has confirmed that "I and my team made       substantial use of the analysis of Professor Berthoud" [5].
He also states       that "Professor Berthoud's work on the employment rates of disabled people       has been fundamental to the National Equality Panel's analysis of       disability and the key role of qualifications" [5].
Further to this, he       states that Berthoud's work on `intersectionalities' between equality       strands (including disability) "has come to define a lot of the equality       debate in policy terms" [5].
Berthoud's work, including his research on       the employment rates of disabled people, was referenced numerous times in       the National Equality Panel's An Anatomy of Economic Inequalities in         the UK report [6].
Working with the Citizens Advice Bureau     The Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) asked Berthoud to interpret the       implications of his empirical research for the possible development of a       discretionary "real world" test of incapacity, to complement the formal       Work Capability Assessment (WCA).
In 2010 CAB put forward an initial       submission to Professor Harrington, who was chairing a Government review       of the WCA.
Professor Harrington asked CAB to further investigate the       feasibility of developing a "real world" test as part of the WCA.
This led       CAB to approach Berthoud, based on his record of research, to produce a       paper for submission to the Harrington Review [7] &#8212; this was later       published as an ISER Working Paper and is listed above (Berthoud, 2011b).
His paper highlighted that the sliding scale of impact on someone's       ability to work at different levels of impairment depended on the level of       educational qualifications and experience of the person.
A Policy Officer       at CAB states that "his paper was extremely useful evidence on this issue.
Unfortunately it became clear that any further exploration of this route       was politically unacceptable at that point" [7].
However, the fact that "real world assessment" has not been included in       the WCA only serves to demonstrate the need for a better means of       assessing a person's capability to work.
The Policy Officer points out       that CAB continues to look at the problems of the WCA and in so doing       continues to use Berthoud's research [7].
