     In the EPSRC funded project (2003-2006) with Dupont Teijin Films Ltd,       Prof Placido and post-graduate researchers (Sarfaraz Moh, David Lusk and       Andrei Voronov) developed the first pinhole-free, dielectric ultra-barrier       coatings on novel heat-stabilised, planarised PEN substrates.
These       coatings survived the now standard calcium test for water vapour       permeation for 1000 hrs at 99% RH and 50&#176;C. This coating is particularly       relevant to organic light emitting diode (OLED) materials but also to       other organic semiconductors that require some degree of protection from       water vapour.
The 2004-2007 DTI LINK funded project with DTF and Plastic Logic       successfully demonstrated the first working all-polymer display, using       planarised PET from DTF and prototype backplane facilities at PL.
The same partners later demonstrated the world's first all-polymer A4 size       e-book reader.
A significant outcome deriving from Prof Placido's previous work on       aluminium nitride thin films was the demonstration that the metallisation       layers in the backplane could be reliably fabricated from aluminium       nitride and a very thin (50 nm) gold coating.
This led to a great       simplification in the production process, saving time and cost through the       elimination of the usual adhesion promoting layer of titanium, nickel or       chromium and also providing a barrier layer against water vapour.
Significant beneficiaries of this research are the companies involved,       firstly Dupont Teijin Films Ltd, having acquired a world leading position       in the supply of planarised and heat-stabilised polymers for the       developing plastic electronics industry.
According to the DTF source       (submitted letter) "the work in the programme also helped in both the       understanding of the property benefits of specialty planarised films;       which have formed the basis of DTF's portfolio of products for the       flexible display industry and in forming a view on whether thin film       deposition offered an opportunity for DTF".
The same source confirms that       the later work with TFC and PL Ltd "has led to significant sales of a       planarised film product for DTF".
Secondly, Plastic Logic Ltd has benefited from very considerable external       investment having validated its polymer TFT technology, with the first       feasibility study securing &gt;$100M investment and allowing PL Ltd to       build in Dresden the first-ever manufacturing facility for flexible       displays (Confirmation in submitted letter from CTO, PL Ltd) and in the       later EPSRC/LINK project (2007-2010).
PL Ltd now has manufacturing       facilities in Dresden and also in south Moscow.
In the wider sense, the       commercial availability of proven heat-stabilised, planarised polymer       substrate material from DTF Ltd is of significant benefit to the       world-wide manufacturers of devices based on lightweight, flexible       substrates, including displays and solar cells.
