     The impact of this research started prior to 2008 as the NS-SEC was       introduced as the new sole official government socio-economic       classification in 2001 for use in the Census and all ONS surveys.
The       impact of this research has continued during the period 2008-13, mostly in       government departments and agencies.
The examples below cover some of the       main uses of the NS-SEC during this period and focus largely on the use of       NS-SEC by the ONS.
Use of the NS-SEC by the ONS       The National Statistician has confirmed that "NS-SEC is an essential tool       for generating national statistics, particularly to establish the       prevalence and magnitude of inequalities in health across the UK       population.
The classification is used on all major national surveys       conducted by ONS including the 2011 Census" [corroborating source 1].
Questions in the 2011 Census were explicitly designed to be able to derive       NS-SEC for use in analysis of the Census data.
The Census Order, which       includes details of the questions, was laid before Parliament in October       2009, with Parliament making the final decisions on the questions that       would be asked.
The Census questionnaires form part of the Census       Regulations, which were approved by Parliament in Spring 2010       [corroborating source 2].
The NS-SEC was rebased on the new Standard       Occupational Classification 2010 (SOC2010) in preparation for the 2011       Census and all government surveys from 2011 onwards [3].
The National Statistician states:     "From my perspective as National Statistician the research carried out       with the University of Essex to develop the NS-SEC was an excellent       example of co-operation that drew on the skills of statisticians within       ONS and the theoretical and empirical skills of the research team at the       University of Essex.
NS-SEC is a vital tool for ONS and more generally for       the policy research community and is a measure that is widely used for       critical elements of social policy" [1].
The NS-SEC, as the official UK Government social classification, is a       vital means through which the ONS establishes the prevalence and magnitude       of inequalities in health.
The NS-SEC continues to be used as measure of       socio-economic position to describe inequalities in, for example, child       mortality [4].
In 2011 the ONS launched two consultations on the life       expectancy time series and infant mortality statistics proposing to only       use the NS-SEC and discontinue producing statistics using the former       socio-economic classifications.
Both consultations resulted in the sole       use of NS-SEC for future official statistics in these two areas [5] [6]       [7].
In addition, The 2010 Marmot Review of Health Inequalities used the       NS-SEC in its analysis of the state of health inequality in England [8].
The use of NS-SEC in producing statistics in higher education       The Higher Education Funding Council for England's (HEFCE) Aimhigher       programme is a key component of government policy to widen and so increase       participation in higher education.
The Guidance to Aimhigher partnerships       for 2008-11 uses, as one of its criteria, the Full-Time Young       Participation by Socio-Eeconomic Classification (FYPSEC) measure.
The       FYPSEC shows the participation rates of young people from the top three       (NS-SEC 1 to 3) and bottom four (NS-SEC 4 to 7) socio-economic classes.
Statistics on both groups inform the widening participation debate, as       does, more importantly, the gap that exists between the two participation       rates [9].
The Higher Education Statistics Agency's (HESA) annual widening       participation performance indicators provide comparative data on the       performance of higher education institutions in recruiting entrants from       various under-represented groups.
The criteria include the use of the       NS-SEC classes 4 to 7 [10].
In addition to this, the Department for       Business, Industry and Skills also uses the FYPSEC measure to assess       government targets on widening access [11].
The use of NS-SEC in measuring economic inequalities       The independent National Equality Panel was set up in October 2008 at the       invitation of the Rt.
Hon.
Harriet Harman MP, Minister for Women and       Equality.
The Panel was asked to investigate the relationships between the       distributions of various kinds of economic outcome on the one hand, and       people's characteristics and circumstances on the other.
The report       addresses questions on matters such as how far up or down people from       different backgrounds typically come in the distributions of earnings,       income or wealth.
The report uses NS-SEC to describe and analyse these       relationships [12].
