     Blackburn's work has had impact in various contexts.
Most notably he has       informed pension policy       in Ecuador through presenting his research to senior government figures,       including the country's       President.
He has also addressed various international organisations,       including the European       Commission's Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and       Inclusion.
Impact in Ecuador       Blackburn was invited to visit Quito in January 2011 by the government of       Ecuador to conduct       seminars over three days for its civil servants, ministers and the       President, Rafael Correa.
These       consultations were organised by the Ecuadorean government think tank,       Institute of Advanced       Studies (IAEN).
The seminars were part of the "The New Left's Frontiers"       event, which was       designed to be a public debate that informed social policy       decision-making.
Blackburn, drawing on       his research, spoke on the ageing society, pension policy, and the       financial crisis.
The Rector of       the IAEN has confirmed Blackburn's participation and writes that "the       seminar was a big public       success, attracting many researchers, policy formers and public       officials...
The event culminated in       a two hour seminar with the President Rafael Correa, who appreciated       greatly the meeting"       [corroborating source 1].
A Minister within the Government of Ecuador has       stated that the public       policy debates and discussions involving Blackburn were "of great value to       the current structural       reforms underway in Ecuador".
He adds that Blackburn "contributed an       informative survey of social       policy options" to the seminars [corroborating source 2].
The IAEN invited Blackburn back to Ecuador in September 2012.
He gave       seminars and lectures       on the implications of the financial crisis, which were attended by       ministers and other high-ranking       government officials [corroborating source 1].
During this visit, he       conducted a ninety-minute       interview with President Correa, which was published in both English and       Spanish.
Blackburn and       the President discussed inter alia the overhaul of the economic       system in Ecuador [corroborating       source 3].
Further evidence of Blackburn's influence in Ecuador is       demonstrated by his New Left         Review article, `Crisis 2.0', being published in Spanish in L&#237;nea         Sur &#8212; the journal of the Ecuadorean       Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Integration [4].
Blackburn has undertaken further public engagement related to Ecuador and       was invited to       contribute to two events.
In December 2012 he spoke at a workshop on       social justice in Ecuador       as part of the "Showing Another World is Possible" conference on Latin       American Solidarity.
The       event was attended by over 400 people, including Ken Livingstone and       Frances O'Grady, the       General Secretary of the TUC [5].
In January 2013 Blackburn contributed to       the "Celebrating       Ecuador's Citizens Revolution" public meeting at Bolivar Hall, London,       where he spoke on the       economic situation in Ecuador, including the reform of pension provision       [6].
International Impact       Blackburn has spoken on pension provision at a number of high-profile       international events, most       notably a conference convened by the EU Commissioner for Employment,       Social Affairs and       Inclusion in Brussels, October 2010.
The conference was on the Pensions       Green Paper and       Blackburn spoke as part of the `The Future of European Pensions' panel,       which was chaired by       Commissioner L&#225;szl&#243; Andor and attended by around 700 EU pension experts       and officials.
Blackburn spoke on the possibility of an EU-wide pension and his       contribution was warmly       received by Georg Fischer (Director within the Commission), who stated:       "There was a lively and       inspiring contribution by one of the panellists, Professor Robin       Blackburn, who said why speak of       these technical issues, why don't we have a European Pension scheme &#8212; a       minimum pension       scheme that would provide a modest sum for all European citizens" [7].
In February 2007 Blackburn spoke at the `How to Devise a Global Pension'       event organised by       Global Action on Aging (GAA) for participants in the UN Economic and       Social Council.
This led to       two further invitations in 2008 to speak at events organised by GAA.
The       first of these (6th March),       organised in collaboration with UN Commission for Social Development,       involved Blackburn       providing a keynote speech on the subject of older women and pensions.
At       the second (22nd April)       he spoke at a GAA event on the topic of global pensions guaranteeing older       people a minimum of       $1 per day [8].
The United Nations' Department of Economic and Social       Affairs cited Blackburn's       work in its report, World Economic and Social Survey 2008: Overcoming         Economic Insecurity.
This       report makes reference to his 2007 piece in New Left Review, which       addresses the need for a       global pension fund to administer a universal pension [9].
Impact in the UK       In June 2009 Blackburn spoke at a Pensions Initiative seminar on The       Changing Landscape of       Public Sector Pension Provision, organised by the LSE Department of       Management.
The event       was attended by high-profile figures within Whitehall, the City, and       unions, including       representatives from the Department for Work and Pensions, National Union       of Teachers, Institute       of Fiscal Studies, Royal Bank of Scotland, and Eversheds.
Drawing heavily       on his published       research, Blackburn spoke on how the financial crisis illustrated the need       for stronger public       provision and how the pooling of funds was necessary to spread risk more       widely.
A member of the       staff from the LSE has confirmed that Blackburn's argument on pooling was       "received with great       interest by participants generally... and [was] particularly true for the       participants from the       Pensions Corporation" [10].
