     The MPE project produced recommendations and proposed EU guidelines on       the education,       training and deployment of MPEs; these were considered by the November       2012 meeting of the       Group of Experts of the European Commission, established under Article 31       of the European       Atomic Energy Community Treaty [1].
These recommendations include a       qualifications framework       to support harmonisation of education and training, and recommended the       introduction in each       Member State of a formal mechanism for recognising by registration an       individual's expertise and       status as an MPE.
It was also recommended that an MPE's education and       training be       documented as `portable' evidence of their professional status.
Recommended staffing levels were       also set for clinical settings.
Engagement activity with national stakeholders focused on raising       awareness of the study, its aims       (including implications for core EU aims such as enhanced professional       mobility between       countries) and subsequent outcomes.
The purpose of this engagement       activity was to prepare       clinical and regulatory audiences for the challenges of implementing the       project's       recommendations.
Examples include communications to the Czech Association       of Medical       Physicists [2], and the inclusion of the project in `Contr&#244;le: the French       Nuclear Safety Authority       Review', as part of a broader update on `European Commission activities on       radiation protection of       patients' [3].
The final project workshop was also covered by professional       bodies, such as the       Institute of Physics' Medical Physics Group in the UK [4].
During this       workshop, Blenkinsopp       presented one paper and co-authored two further papers which were       presented.
The outcomes of the study will be taken forward by the new Framework       Programme 7 (FP7)       coordination project, awarded within the REF impact census period with a       start date of 1st August       2013 [5].
A different European Directorate from the original commissioning       Directorate has funded       this follow up project, `European Training and Education for Medical       Physics Experts in Radiology'       (EUTEMPE-RX, project 605298), which specifically mentions the project in       this case study as       being the building block for the new project.
The new project aims to       build upon the qualification       framework developed as part of the MPE study to develop a pilot training       programme for MPEs in       Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, in response to the differing       levels of expertise and       facilities for MPE training across the EU, as highlighted by the report on       the survey carried out as a       part of the MPE project (http://portal.ucm.es/c/document_library/get_file?uuid=7f372d5a-04c2-469c-b5c1-afc1d0effe4d&amp;groupId=35627).
The EUTEMPE-RX project has been awarded FP7 funding of &#8364;1.658 million,       against a total project       value of &#8364;1.879 million.
Partners include clinics, hospitals and health       bodies such as the Royal       Surrey County Hospital NHS Foundation Trust in the UK, German hospital       Klinikum Braunschweig       gGmbH, and the European Federation of Organisations for Medical Physics       (EFOMP), a partner in       the MPE project.
The results of the MPE project are therefore being used       as evidence to support       the further development of MPE training and the harmonisation of standards       by relevant clinicians       and organisations active in this field across Europe, with FP7 funding       committed to this work by the       EC.
The significance of the impact is best understood by considering the       timescales involved.
The       Council Directive 97/43/EURATOM was passed on 30 June 1997, forty years       after the EURATOM       Treaty, and for the first time enshrined a definition of the Medical       Physics Expert.
It might be       assumed this would have settled matters, but in fact it merely served to       trigger a fifteen year       debate about how the definition should be interpreted, a debate which       failed to come to any       consensus view, despite extensive European-wide efforts from bodies such       as EFOMP, to the       considerable frustration of policymakers whose preference was to be guided       by the medical       physicists.
The MPE project, by finally producing hard data on the       diversity of practice (in       education and training, deployment, professional registration etc.
), was       able to develop concrete,       evidence-based proposals that could form the basis for consensus on a way       forward.
The project       does not mark the end of the process, but it can legitimately be described       as `the end of the       beginning', and has provided the basis upon which the EC is now prepared       to invest almost &#8364;2       million to follow through on the recommendations coming out of our       research.
