     The guidelines developed by Gleeson for immunoendocrine monitoring of       athletes and strategies       to minimize risk of overtraining and infection were commissioned by UK       Sport and have since been       updated as an expert position statement (with a previous PhD student, Prof       Neil Walsh, Bangor       University: Gleeson M and Walsh N. The British Association of Sport and       Exercise Sciences       (BASES) Expert Statement on Exercise, Immunity and Infection.
Journal         of Sports Sciences 30(3):       321-324, 2012) endorsed by BASES and are employed throughout the UK and       beyond.
For       example, the regular monitoring of salivary IgA and nutritional and       lifestyle strategies to limit stress       and minimize infection risk are currently recommended by BASES, the       English Institute of Sport       (EIS) [5.1], the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) [5.2],       the European College of Sport Science       (ECSS) and the International Society of Exercise and Immunology (ISEI).
Gleeson's guidelines       were adopted by the recent programme of infection prevention strategies       that were developed in       2011-2012 by a medic working for UK Sport/EIS [5.3].
Thus, the       research has both wide reach to       applied sport scientists, athletes and coaches and significance by       altering nutrition and monitoring       practices leading to reduced infection risk for athletes.
The Loughborough University-based research 2008-2013 has led to an       appreciation of the       importance of monitoring salivary IgA as a non-invasive marker of immune       function and predictor       of illness risk in athletes and the monitoring of salivary cortisol and       testosterone as hormonal       markers of stress [5.4] in both able and spinal cord injured       athletes.
With Gleeson's assistance,       saliva monitoring has been used to assess training/competition stress in       several professional       football and rugby clubs including Chelsea FC, Manchester City FC,       Manchester United FC [5.4],       Leicester City FC and Leicester Tigers RFC and the England rugby union       squad.
Gleeson has       been instrumental in setting up these initiatives with these clubs in the       period 2004-2010, initially       by providing assistance with the analysis of saliva samples and guidance       on sample collection       methods and the timing of collections and the appropriate interpretation       of the results of the       analysis [5.4].
Loughborough University's research [3.1-3.3] on the most       effective nutritional interventions to       boost immunity and reduce infection risk is being applied in the world of       sport.
For example,       probiotic supplementation is presently being used to support training       and/or competition       performances by UK Athletics, British Cycling Federation, British Rowing,       British Canoe Union,       British Triathlon Federation, British Swimming, the Rugby Football Union,       the Welsh and Scottish       Rugby Football Unions, and other professional athletes [5.1, 5.2, 5.5].
The Lactobacillus probiotic       product that Gleeson's research demonstrated to be effective in reducing       incidence of URTI in       athletes was used by GB athletes in the lead up to and during the most       recent 2010       Commonwealth, and 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games following discussions       with the Head of       Performance Nutrition of the EIS [5.1] and via advice disseminated       to Sport Dietitians UK.
The       Loughborough University research has also widened the market of probiotics       to the sporting       population [5.5, 5.6].
The research findings have been communicated in conversation with key       individuals within the EIS       [5.1, 5.3], AIS [5.2], International Olympic Committee       (IOC) etc and also through invited       presentations in the UK since 2008 (e.g.
EIS Strength and Conditioning       conference; EIS Nutrition       conference; EIS Unwell Athlete workshop; UKA Coaches conference, Sport       Dietitians UK       Workshops, Royal Society of Medicine Symposia) and abroad (e.g.
IOC       Offices, Switzerland;       Nestle Nutrition Institute Symposia in Zurich and Mallorca).
Moreover, for       wider impact, Gleeson       occasionally contributes articles aimed at practicing sport scientists,       coaches and athletes (e.g.
The Sport and Exercise Scientist, Strength and Conditioning, UEFA         Direct) and lay people       (SportEX Health, Peak Performance, Men's Health, Runners World, Cycling         Weekly) as well as       disseminating translation of the research to the national press, radio and       television, both home and       abroad.
This ensures that the research findings inform not only the elite,       but also the wider general       public who engage in regular exercise for fun and health.
The example outputs [3.1-3.6], along with other related outputs,       have contributed to the       development of nutritional support protocols and guidelines documents for       monitoring of athletes       as part of physiological support services to athletes [5.1-5.3].
These documents have been       published as review articles in academic journals (e.g.
An ECSS/ACSM       position statement on       prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the overtraining syndrome in European         Journal of Sport         Sciences 2013, two ISEI position statements on exercise and immune       function and maintaining       immune health in Exercise Immunology Review 2011, a BASES expert       statement in Journal of         Sports Sciences 2012).
Loughborough University has developed a       strong reputation for high       quality original research in this area as evidenced by Gleeson's tenure as       vice president (2005-2007)       and president (2007-2009) of the ISEI.
