 The research conducted by Letherby and Bell et al has impacted on the practice of care provided for pregnant women and mothers and has informed screening policy in the UK.
Regarding healthcare practice, Letherby's work on the medical, social, and emotional experience of pre- pregnancy, pregnancy and early motherhood has resulted in changes in practice in the physical environment of the antenatal clinic at Derriford Hospital, Plymouth, which is now specifically geared to the needs of women with pre-existing diabetes.
Furthermore, training programmes for health and social care professionals (e.g.
midwives, healthcare assistants, social workers) have also been developed, with some being delivered by the research team alongside mothers, and some developed by a theatre group working with support from the research team (so far several hundreds of professionals have undergone this training since 2006).
Letherby's work on PCOS has resulted in a patient information leaflet that has been sent to every GP practice in Cornwall and all specialist gynea/infertility clinics in Cornwall and Plymouth by Public Health, Cornwall &amp; Isles of Scilly PCT; and provided as a free downloadable PDF by the Nursing Standard.
Letherby's work has led to the commissioning/funding of further research including: an ESRC funded PhD focusing on the pregnancy and early motherhood experience of women with diabetes and obesity; a British Academy funded project focusing on social support accessed via the internet following perinatal loss; a Plymouth Hospital's funded project focusing on understanding and experiencing screening and diagnosis alongside associated issues of loss; and, a Cornwall and IOS NHS funded project focusing on patient-centred interventions to improve long term health and quality of life for women with PCOS.
Following her research Letherby has been invited to talk with and provide teaching materials for health and social care practitioners throughout the UK (including training as mentioned above and commissioned writing for various Open University vocationally focused courses).
This includes: a number of invited presentations at local, regional and national PCT/Social Services events; and, a plenary talk at the 2013 Diabetes UK conference (organised by the leading UK charity that cares for, connects with and campaigns on behalf of all people affected by diabetes, aimed at professionals working in the area and delivering information on the latest global developments in diabetes care and research).
In addition, other impacts include the setting up of a young parent's forum and changes in the architecture of housing provision for young parents with private entrances (at the young women's request) to each flat replacing a communal entrance.
Bell's research has also led to improved information for women who are pregnant and where screening has revealed a fetal anomaly &#8212; this was the core purpose of SERIO's initial research in 2006-07.
The impact of SERIO's further research has been more orientated towards policy review.
Screening for Down's syndrome has been implemented as a Ministerial commitment since 2001 and is overseen by the Fetal Anomaly Screening Programme.
Trusts have been expected to work towards improving their baseline programmes by improving the detection rate to `greater than 75% with a false positive rate of less than 3%'.
It was within this context that the previously stipulated detection rate goals were reviewed by the FASP using NHS NSC guidelines in 2010, based on the best research available at that time.
As part of the first step of the review process, the evidence gathered in the research was reviewed by screening policy and health experts.
Considering these research findings, alongside issues surrounding relevant governmental pressures, society/community concerns, media, maternal/parental experience and economic issues, the FASP recommended that Down's syndrome screening policy remains unchanged until the next triennial review in 2013.
Work in this area has been recognised by senior level staff in the FASP, with its Director stating that SERIO `have provided an extremely good service in undertaking literature reviews for us.
These underpin the evidence required to support policy decisions and set standards which are necessary to ensure we have a quality screening service in England'.
In delivering the review report to the NHS NSC, the National Project Officer for the NHS FASP reported to stakeholders of the Down's syndrome review process that... `we anticipate that the UK NSC Group will see our policy as appropriate, safe, cost-effective and practical for those at point of delivery and receivership'.
The entire review process was also successfully submitted for NICE Evidence Accreditation.
The Accreditation Programme recognises organisations that demonstrate high standards in producing health or social care guidance, assuring users of the accredited guidance that the information is of the highest quality.
The new National policy has now been written and is currently open for public consultation.
