     Essex undertook the psychosocial research aspects of the screening pilot       evaluation.
This work has primarily had impact in two ways.
Firstly, the       conclusion that there was no evidence to suggest adverse psychological       effects from screening was an important influencing factor in the decision       to roll-out the screening on a national scale.
Secondly, research       focussing on the psychological aspects of the pilot also identified       psychologically-informed strategies by which the level of screening test       uptake, and hence its associated benefits, could be maximised.
As an       example, results concerning uptake and acceptability proved to be useful       in informing strategies to overcome limiting factors for underrepresented       groups.
Both main impacts are recognised in a letter of support from the       Director of NHS Cancer Screening Programmes, who oversaw the pilot and       subsequent roll-out on behalf of the NHS [see corroborating source 1].
In       this letter, the Director explains how:     "Professor Orbell's research made an important contribution to inform the       decision that the screening should be rolled out in a national programme.
Given that this was the first programme of its kind to use the       self-sampling FOBT kit and the first cancer screening programme to involve       men as well as women, understanding the uptake and acceptability of the       pilot programme was particularly important".
Director, NHS Cancer Screening Programmes     Drawing on the conclusions and recommendations of the pilot evaluation,       full roll-out of the NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (BCSP) using the       FOBt was completed in July 2010.
This achieved 100% coverage of PCT       populations and in the first instance focussed on 60-69 year olds, as       detailed in the 2011 DoH report Improving Outcomes: A Strategy for         Cancer [2, p.40].
The impact of the BCSP is extensive and       unprecedented.
Between July 2006 and July 2013, over 17 million screening       episodes had been completed and 15,000 cancers had been detected [1].
Improving         Outcomes also reports that as of December 2010, 40,000 patients had       also undergone polyp removal [2, p.40].
The use of the self-sampling FOBt       kit was important in making screening widely accessible, and it provided a       good balance of ease of use and efficiency.
The pilot evaluation had       highlighted, in 2003, that the ability to undergo a self-test in the       privacy of one's own home imbued a sense of personal autonomy, and that       patients often perceived less embarrassment from this means of testing.
As       screening was subsequently rolled-out, amongst a sample of people       interviewed it was reported how most were finding it straightforward to       undertake the test [3].
In December 2007 the NHS Cancer Reform Strategy stated that, from April       2010, the screening programme would be extended to invite men and women up       to the age of 75 [4, p.8].
This was reaffirmed by the Coalition Government       in January 2011 [2, p.40].
The NHS Operating Framework of 2011/12 also       asserts the intention to continue to screen adults in the target age range       every 2 years [5, p.39].
Whilst it is too soon to measure the effective       decline in bowel cancer mortality that will accrue from the 2006 roll-out       of screening, there is strong evidence to suggest that screening is indeed       enabling a reduction.
A statistical analysis of figures in Scotland, that       compares the mortality rates amongst those who were invited to take part       in the screening pilot between 2000 and 2007 and those who were       not, shows a dramatic impact of screening, suggesting that the full       roll-out will have the same positive effect.
This analysis was published       in the BMJ in 2011 [6].
The study shows that people who were       invited to take part in the screening pilot had a 10% lower mortality rate       than people who were not invited (intention to treat analysis).
Furthermore, when comparing those who were invited and actually         participated in screening with those who were not invited, the       benefit was a 27% decline in bowel cancer mortality.
Hence, it is       suggested that the screening programme has the potential to save more than       1000 lives every year as it continues.
In 2011, following the return of       the first million kits, the Programme's Director indicated that it was on       track to cut deaths by 16% [1] [7].
In addition to the use of Orbell's research in informing the decision to       roll-out the programme, the psychological aspects of the evaluation have       also been used to guide and inform recruitment campaigns.
Part of the       pilot evaluation exercise had identified beliefs and attitudes amongst       underrepresented groups.
These findings were then used to inform the use       of targeted recruitment campaigns intended to increase uptake.
For       example, the 2007-11 Men's Health Forum (MHF) Bowel Cancer Project       targeted greater male participation in the Bowel Cancer Screening       Programme.
The MHF's 2011 final report referenced the research of Orbell,       using insight provided by the focus groups from the bowel cancer screening       programme evaluation.
In particular, it highlighted how factors from the       pilot which were seen as positive could be used to increase male uptake       [8, p.22].
In another example, again using knowledge gained from the       psychological aspects of the pilot evaluation, Orbell consulted on the healthtalkonline       website.
Since May 2007 this has provided extensive advice and resources,       as well as encouraging discussion, designed to help people decide whether       to take part in bowel cancer screening, and also to help them complete the       sampling kits [9].
In a wider context, at governmental level, Orbell's       work is recognised in the 2008 Gender and Access to Health Services         Study [10, p.80], as well as a report written for the US Agency for       Healthcare Research and Quality, Enhancing the Use and Quality of         Colorectal Cancer Screening, AHRQ Publication No.
10-E002, February       2010 [11, p.32].
