     The underpinning research strongly influenced the 2012 report of the       Commons Justice Committee reviewing the operation of the FOI Act [see 1 in       section 5], and the Ministry of Justice memorandum submitted to that       review [2].
House of Commons Justice Committee     At its first evidence session on 21 February 2012 the Justice Committee       invited Hazell, Worthy and Amos (all of UCL) to give evidence [3].
The       research team also made three written submissions to the Commons Justice       Committee, which were published by the Committee (Ev 126, 169, 194 [4]).
They also gave private briefings for government ministers; senior       officials responsible for FOI; and for the Information Commissioner and       his staff.
The Committee's report on the Freedom of Information Act, Post         Legislative Scrutiny of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (HC       96-1, July 2012), makes over 40 references to the Constitution Unit's work       [1].
Typical references include: `The question whether the Act had       actually had an effect on public understanding of Government decision       making was explored by the Constitution Unit in its major piece of       research on whether the Act had achieved its objectives.'
(para.
40); `The       Constitution Unit ... found that public participation in decision-making       had not been greatly improved in central Government because ...' (para.
41).
UCL research underpinned the Committee's conceptual approach.
The       Committee adopted the same analytical approach as the Constitution Unit's       research, identifying the same two primary objectives and four secondary       objectives for FOI &#8212; to increase transparency strengthen accountability       for the former and to improve the quality of government decision making,       increase public understanding of government, increase public participation       and increase trust in government for the latter &#8212; (ch.
2 of [1],       especially para.
11).
Citing the Constitution Unit's evidence 13 times,       the Committee came to the conclusions established by the research: the two       primary objectives of greater transparency and accountability had been       met, but the four secondary objectives had not (ch 2).
On the secondary       objectives of improving the quality of government decision-making, and       increasing public understanding and public trust, the government cited the       Constitution Unit research and agreed with the findings (paras.
206-215).
The Committee found that the objective of increasing public trust and         confidence in Government, Parliament and other public authorities       may have been unrealistic because, as found following research by the       Constitution Unit, the vast majority of people experience freedom of       information through news stories and these are more likely to be negative       in tone than otherwise.
The Committee noted the Constitution Unit research       as showing that the Act had had "no generalisable impact on trust" (para.
35), as well as the media analysis which had shown that the press tends to       use FOI stories to portray government in a negative light (paras.
35-37).
The Justice Committee devoted a separate chapter of their report to the         `chilling effect', the fear that FOI has damaged the quality of       policy advice and of the public record.
They adopted the Constitution       Unit's definition of the chilling effect, and cited the research 15 times.
In the core section of the chapter the research was reported in nine       consecutive paragraphs, concluding:     "The Constitution Unit's research on FOI is the first major piece of       research of its kind and is a valuable contribution to the debate around       FOI.
In its consideration of the chilling effect, the Unit broadly       concluded that the effect of FOI appeared negligible to marginal.
We note       this finding and have taken it into account in our deliberations" (para.
190).
The next two paragraphs cited contrary evidence from Sir Gus O'Donnell,       but the report concluded that no legislative change was required.
The Justice Committee also used the research when assessing the costs         of FOI, at paras.
87 and 138.
They drew upon the Unit's annual       surveys of the costs to local authorities (para.
87); its surveys of       requesters and their motivations (para.
41); and its finding that       publication schemes do not work (paras.
20, 24-5).
The Committee recognised the rigour of the research, relying as       it did on over 150 interviews and five different research methods.
Their       report stated: "The largest body of research on the impact of FOI is the       work carried out by the Constitution Unit between 2007 and 2009, looking       at its effect on central Government, local government and Parliament.
As       the most important research-based source of evidence on FOI, it is worth       considering in some detail.
The Unit's research methods included:       interviews with 56 officials in eight central Government departments, 90       officials and others across 16 local authorities, 30 MPs, peers and       officials at Westminster, as well as journalists, requesters and       campaigners; an online survey of FOI requesters; analysis of press       articles using FOI; analysis of FOI case law; and analysis of disclosure       logs" (para.
182).
Ministry of Justice Memorandum     The Ministry of Justice Memorandum to the Commons Justice Committee (Dec       2011) makes frequent references to the Constitution Unit's research, which       is cited 12 times in the Memorandum itself, and 21 times in the Appendices       [2] In the Memorandum's literature review the Unit's research is cited in       half of all the footnotes (26 out of 56).
The review opens by saying:       "Much of the fieldwork in this topic area has been conducted by members of       the Constitution Unit at University College London's Department of       Political Science.
Their research is methodologically robust, encompassing       multiple methodologies including quantitative surveys of FOI requesters,       officials and stakeholders; interviews with parliamentarians, civil       servants and Information Tribunal members; analysis of media coverage; and       analysis of Information Tribunal cases" (p. 82).
Like the Justice Committee, the Memorandum adopted the UCL conceptual         approach identifying the same objectives (transparency and       accountability as primary and improving the quality of government decision       making, increasing public understanding of government, increasing public       participation and increasing trust in government as secondary (paras.
195-218 and pp.
84-87, [2]).
The Memorandum came to similar conclusions as       the UCL research as to the extent to which these objectives had been       achieved.
On the question of trust, the Memorandum cites and endorses the       following conclusion from UCL research: "FOI was oversold, by its       advocates and by ministers, and labours under the burden of unrealistic       objectives.
To policy audiences we stress the need to lower expectations       of what FOI can deliver; and explain that FOI is unlikely ever to increase       trust, because the government's battle with the press over bad FOI stories       is one that can never be won" (p. 87, [2]).
Reach of the impact     In advance of the 2012 review a number of senior politicians expressed       strong concerns about the FOI Act, with Tony Blair and Jack Straw claiming       that the Act had been a terrible mistake.
They claimed it had stifled       frank advice and open discussion within government.
The research findings       challenged this: there is very little evidence to substantiate the claim       that FOI had a chilling effect.
Much stronger causal factors were the fear       of leaks, and changing administrative practices leading to poorer record       keeping.
The Committee balanced the Unit's evidence against the critics       and concluded:     "We are not able to conclude, with any certainty, that a chilling effect       has resulted from the FOI Act ... the Constitution Unit's research, the       most in-depth available, suggests it has only a marginal effect.
...
Given       the uncertainty of the evidence we do not recommend any major diminution       of the openness created by the FOI Act" (paras.
200-201, [1]).
Reach has been further extended by: a monthly series of Government       Information Policy seminars, supported by government departments as       subscribers, which ran from 1999 to 2010; an annual conference for FOI       practitioners, FOI Live, which regularly attracted over 300 FOI       practitioners; monthly FOI updates on the FOI pages of the Unit website;       articles for local government and Whitehall journals; and frequent media       appearances.
