     To resolve the three urgent matters identified by the research (how the       Queen should appoint a Prime Minister in a hung Parliament; what powers       could be exercised by the previous government; and how the civil service       could support the process of government formation), the researchers       suggested that a stronger set of guidelines should be developed in the       form of a Cabinet Manual modelled on New Zealand's.
Hazell provided copies of the New Zealand Cabinet Manual to the Cabinet       Office.
He also suggested to the Commons Justice Committee that they hold       a quick inquiry into preparations for the next election.
In February 2010,       Hazell (UCL) and Peter Riddell (IfG) gave oral and written evidence to the       Committee, demonstrating the inadequacy of existing Cabinet guidance,       based on a comparison of the UK with Australia, Canada, Scotland and New       Zealand [see 1 in section 5].
This was followed by the Cabinet Secretary       Sir Gus O'Donnell announcing the preparation of a comprehensive Cabinet       Manual, and publication of the key chapter on government formation before       the 2010 general election [2].
Thus, only ten weeks after the 2009 report       appeared, the Cabinet Office published Elections and Government         Formation as a guide to the process of government formation.
The specific contributions of the chapter published as Elections and         Government Formation were: to provide essential guidance about the       process of government formation in the event of a hung Parliament; to       bring together in one place political and administrative guidance for the       Cabinet, which the research had shown was non-existent, or fragmented and       hard to find; and to codify for the first time the key constitutional       conventions on appointing a Prime Minister.
The Manual included two       innovations which the Constitution Unit report proposed to the Cabinet       Office: (1) an extension of the `caretaker convention' to restrict       government decision-making in three different contexts: the run-up to the       election, the period of government formation, and a mid-term loss of       confidence (paras.
67-71 of the published Cabinet Manual [3]) and (2)       provision of civil service support for the political parties negotiating       after an election (paras.
51-53).
Until the publication of Elections and Government Formation the       process of appointing a new Prime Minister had been shrouded in mystery,       leading to speculation that an uncertain election result would lead to       chaos, or that the Queen herself might be required to choose.
There was no       agreed understanding that the previous government might continue in office       until a new government was formed.
There had also been nervousness in the       financial markets about prolonged uncertainty following the election.
Hazell (together with the Institute for Government) spoke at events in the       City of London to explain what would happen, for example at the City       Corporation on 11 March, and to the London Chamber of Commerce on 23       March.
Researchers also briefed the political parties on, among other       topics, the constitutional rules of government formation, how the parties       would need to negotiate and the caretaker convention.
To enhance the accuracy of media coverage, Hazell spoke at four private       briefings for broadcasters (two for the BBC, one at Millbank and one at TV       Centre; one big meeting for all ITN and C4 news teams; one for Sky) and       for the press and Foreign Press Association arranged in partnership with       the Institute of Government.
In the run up to the election Hazell also       gave 15 interviews to UK and foreign broadcasters.
During the `Five Days       in May' he was part of the BBC and ITV election coverage teams, and gave       over 25 broadcast interviews to explain the process of government       formation in a hung Parliament (eg for ITN on 6 and 7 May; BBC TV News and       BBC Politics Show on 8 and 9 May) [4].
These activities to promote research impact were supplemented by       activities of broader public engagement.
On 9 May 2010 Hazell published       `Keep calm and carry on talking: Whitehall has been preparing for this for       months' in The Sunday Times.
He also provided a YouTube       mini-lecture, `A Hung Parliament Explained' (10 Mar 2010), which at the       time of this submission has been viewed more than 97,000 times [5].
The `Five Days in May' went smoothly.
That was not a foregone conclusion.
But partly thanks to Constitution Unit briefings, none of the papers       declared that Cameron had `won' the election, nor did they whip up panic       amongst the public.
The civil service supported the negotiations between       the parties, for the first time ever; the old government remained in       office for five days during the coalition negotiations; the Queen was not       drawn in until it was clear who could command confidence in the new       Parliament; the markets remained calm.
The wider beneficiaries were the UK       electorate, who observed an orderly transition and formation of the first       coalition government in 60 years.
As the Guardian observed in an       editorial titled `In Praise of the Constitution Unit' on 23 July 2010:     Its report last year on minority parliaments shaped the Cabinet       Secretary's thinking, and so helped lead to this spring's unexpectedly       smooth transition to the coalition [6].
Following the formation of the government, the Cabinet Office began       preparing a complete Cabinet Manual explicitly modelled on the New Zealand       example, as recommended by UCL researchers.
A consultation draft was       published in December 2010, and the first full Cabinet Manual was produced       in October 2011 [3].
Once again, Robert Hazell was consulted by the Cabinet Office on       successive drafts of the Manual during 2010, and had several meetings with       Sir Gus O'Donnell to discuss the drafts.
When the work in Whitehall was       going slowly, UCL's Dr Ben Yong, an expert on the New Zealand Cabinet       Manual, was seconded to them for six months (March-September 2010).
Hazell       and Yong were twice invited to give evidence to the Political and       Constitutional Reform Committee [7], and to take part in a private seminar       of the Commons Public Administration Committee in March 2011.
At these events, the researchers explained to Committee members the       significance of the Cabinet Manual, and sought to allay their fears that       it was wrong for the Executive to offer its own interpretation of       constitutional conventions, as well as successfully challenging specific       statements in the draft that contravened constitutional principles.
For       example, the draft suggested "whichever party has won the most votes and       the most seats, if not an absolute majority, has the first right to seek       to govern, either on its own or by reaching out to other parties".
Hazell       pointed out this was wrong: the constitutional principle was that the       Queen should appoint as Prime Minister the person who commanded the       confidence of Parliament (who need not necessarily be the leader of the       largest party).
As acknowledged in the committee's report, the offending       passage was deleted on this recommendation [8].
As a result, as of October 2011, the UK has a published Cabinet Manual       which lays out clearly the main laws and processes that govern the conduct       and operation of the government, and of government formation.
In summer       2013, the new Cabinet Secretary consulted Hazell about Cabinet Office       preparations for the next election, and the BBC started consulting him       about its election coverage.
