     LSHTM has made notable contributions to malaria treatment through the       development of improved       protocols and methodologies, leading to the commercialisation of a       low-cost, easy-to-use malaria       testing kit suitable for developing countries.
Through media outputs and       further research, the work       has raised awareness of issues surrounding malaria diagnostics among an       international audience.
From a patient-care perspective, the team's examination of the risks       posed by Plasmodium         knowlesi means this species is now widely considered a possible       cause of malaria throughout       Southeast Asia.
Evidence published by LSHTM is now used throughout       Malaysian Borneo (where       at least 1,731 cases of knowlesi malaria have been correctly       diagnosed and treated between       2004-2012) and the region, such that `human cases have been described in       virtually all Southeast       Asian countries, and P. knowlesi is now considered the fifth       species of Plasmodium causing       malaria in humans'.5.1     The description of ovale malaria as two distinct species has generated a       new (small) literature       focusing on Plasmodium ovale curtisi and P. ovale wallikeri.
This is now influencing understanding       of malaria epidemiology in countries including Angola, Ethiopia and       Bangladesh, and the practice       of malaria diagnosis in non-endemic laboratories.
For example, parasite       DNA from a recent fatal       case of ovale malaria was used as evidence that P. ovale curtisi       was the infective agent.5.2 A US       soldier returned from Liberia with malaria symptoms, microscopic evidence       of malaria lacking       species-discriminating features, and a negative antigen detection test,       was diagnosed as infected       with P. ovale wallikeri by comparison with published sequence data       from the LSHTM studies.5.3     Research into the use of a LAMP kit as an alternative method of parasite       detection has brought       both commercial impact and patient benefits.
The testing kits pioneered at       LSHTM received CE       marking in 2011 and became commercially available via the Tokyo-based       Eiken Chemical       Corporation in July 2012.5.4 The Foundation for Innovative New       Diagnostics (FIND) is currently       coordinating orders from the manufacturers.
Advantages of the kits       relative to existing tests       include: they can be performed by non-specialist health workers, do not       need refrigeration, and       take less than an hour.
Rapid detection is key to rapid treatment, before       complications and risks       escalate, so could save money for health services.
Sutherland shared the benefits of the methodology with a wider audience       when he demonstrated       the kits on a 30-minute BBC World Service programme, broadcast in August       2013 on the BBC       Arabic programme 4Tech.
Interest has been high, with FIND and       LSHTM receiving an average of       one query a week from hospitals and universities worldwide.
Media coverage       (for example in the       Mail Online, May 2013)5.5 has also generated interest,       with enquiries coming from countries       including Malaysia, Sierra Leone, India, Tanzania and, from Kenya, the US       Army Medical       Research Unit.
One typical email sent to Sutherland in May 2013 reads:       `Great to read about the       test for malaria ...
I am now working in East Malaysia ...
The diagnosis       here is still based on       microscopic examination.
If your test is available (and hopefully not too       expensive) then it would       reduce the likelihood of missing malaria cases, especially in areas where       we lack expert       technicians.
'5.6     Further impact has been achieved through involvement in the West African       Network for Clinical       Trials of Antimalarial Drugs (WANECAM) project, a consortium of West       African and European       researchers focusing on trials for developing countries.
They contacted       Sutherland and the LSHTM       team in 2009, asking them to become a consortium partner.
LSHTM's       quantitative PCR method for       detecting parasite clearance within the first 72 hours of treatment was       built into large-scale phase       III/IV monitoring of antimalarial drug efficacy in children.5.7       Khalid Beshir received funding from the       European and Developing Countries Clinical Trial Partnership (EDCTP) to       work on the project,       which began in early 2013 with the collection of thousands of samples at       five sites within three       West African countries: Mali, Burkina Faso and Guinea Conakry.
The samples       will be analysed       over the coming year to examine the efficacy of four different combination       drugs, with findings       feeding into policy recommendations.
LSHTM's scaled-up method permitting parasite DNA detection down to a       level of 0.05 parasites       per microlitre of blood was used to screen a series of umbilical cord       blood donations from       seropositive mothers, and found no evidence that any of the infants were       exposed to viable malaria       parasites (N=54).
The paper with these findings was received for       consideration by the Parasite       Advisory Group (Sutherland is a member) of the Standing Advisory Committee       for Transfusion-Transmitted       Infections (SACTII).5.8 The findings support current policy at       NHS Blood and       Transplant, which seeks to minimise loss of donated units.
