     Understanding gained from the body of underpinning research detailed in       2, led to the adoption of a unique approach to technology evaluation and       implementation, by Jackson, Cooke, and Lindsay when they were approached       in 2007 by Leicestershire Police to research the selection, implementation       and embedding of a mobile policing system.
Using analytical tools such as       feature analysis matrices [2.1], evaluation frameworks [2.1] and       technology adoption models, research has led to impact on the efficiency       and effectiveness of policing in the Leicestershire Police.
The unique       aspect of Leicestershire Police's mobile solution, informed by the       research, was the adoption of Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) into response       vehicles, with a Citrix Operating System, offering a user friendly       interface and keyboard, with full desktop access to all officer       information systems, thus `mimicking' desktop access available in the       police station and reducing need for response officers to return to base.
This contrasts with the less successful, but more common, approach of many       Forces relying on the provision of Blackberry hand devices to officers.
The in-car MDT solution contributed directly to the achievement of a       number of significant public policy goals for policing, such as higher       street visibility, higher profile neighbourhood policing, and reduced time       spent on bureaucracy.
Statistics from April 2012 [5.1] demonstrate       that, since the implementation of mobile technology within the Force:            Visibility of response officers has risen 44%;       Patrol hours for response and neighbourhood officers has increased by         an average of 8000 hours/month;       All crime within the Force's region has fallen 26.6%, with burglary         down 23%;       Public confidence in the Force has almost doubled to a current level         around 85.4%;       Public satisfaction with the Force's response to Anti-Social Behaviour         stands at around 92.5%;       Anti-Social Behaviour rates are the third lowest in England and Wales         at 39.85 per 1000 population and are still falling.
Senior Force personnel have declared strong confidence in the significant       role that the Loughborough University research played in this success [5.2].
In terms of cash savings, the evidence shown by Table 1 indicates that       mobile technologies have contributed to financial productivity       improvements within Leicestershire Police of over &#163;5 million for 2009 and       2010.
Table 1: Summary of financial savings to Leicestershire Police         following implementation of MDTs [5.1]                                Benefits           Financial               Saving                             Local Police Officer Visibility           &#163;3,582,092                             Mileage savings (April 2010 to Oct 2010)           &#163;10,516                             Reduction in crime input staff (per annum)           &#163;37,219                             Sale of police buildings: revenue costs           &#163;245,535                             Sale of police buildings: capital costs           &#163;1,200,000                             TOTAL           &#163;5,075,362                          The MDTs are also facilitating further modernisation of policing with new       ways of working including:            Remote working in isolated, rural sites, with 80 police officers now         operating in the heart of local neighbourhoods;       More efficient witness viewing/ ID procedures;       Custody visits using handheld devices;       Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR);       Major crime investigation features e.g.
HOLMES enquiries which now         update immediately leading to real-time intelligence-led policing;       More efficient crime reporting process, with time taken reduced from         three days to 11 minutes;       Electronic signatures for witness statements;       Mobile control rooms for major events such as Download festival and         EDL protests;          The project was recognised at the 2009 UK British Computer Society IT       Industry awards [5.3].
It has also received significant media       attention (as detailed in 5.4 to 5.7).
As an indication of the reach of the impact from the project, the system       is being introduced into other UK police forces.
To date 15 forces have       visited Leicestershire to see the MDTs in action and the following forces       are now using the system: Hampshire, Dyfed Powys, Cumbria, Norfolk and       Suffolk.
Forces in Essex, Hertfordshire and Avon and Somerset are       currently in negotiation with the suppliers with a view to purchasing the       terminals.
Warwickshire and Nottinghamshire have adopted the Citrix       operating system desktop solution using alternative hardware.
Internationally the system is now being used in Saudi Arabia and       Azerbaijan, indicating the global reach of the research impact [5.1].
National recognition of the effectiveness and impact of the Loughborough       University work resulted in the Budget and Performance Review Committee of       the London Assembly inviting Jackson to provide expert advice on potential       mobile data solutions for the London Metropolitan Police Service in March       2013 [5.8].
