     The underpinning research described above has contributed to improved       services to the scholarly publishing community and influenced national and       international OA policy decisions regarding investment in institutional       repositories &#8212; by June 2013, 172 institutions worldwide had mandates for       research publications in place compared to fewer than 10 in 2003, and       fewer than 50 in 2008 (source: ROARMAP &#8212; http://roarmap.eprints.org/).
4.1) The research described in 2.1 contributed to the acceptance and       development of distributed OA repositories, which have been widely adopted       in the UK academic community &#8212; ROAR (the Registry of Open Access       Repositories &#8212; http://roar.eprints.org)       reports the creation of 197 UK repositories since 2005.
In outlining       publishers' conditions for uploading articles to distributed repositories,       the RoMEO project was critical to the development of the institutional       repository infrastructure, providing the foundation for the Sherpa Romeo       service http://www.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo/faq.php?fIDnum=|&amp;mode=simple&amp;la=en#operators)       [5.1].
This service provides a search interface to CTA data       based on a rigorous controlled vocabulary, and is widely used by authors       and repository librarians to determine the conditions by which articles       state of publishers' acceptance of self-archiving, having been extended       and exploited by Sherpa and now used internationally; for the period       2010-11, there have been 457,629 visits, of which 85,493 are from the UK,       64,293 from the USA and 32,032 from Australia, and a total of 2,176,548       page views [5.2].
4.2) Research described in 2.2 made a major contribution to understanding       the potential benefits of OA and was recognised as having driven the       JISC's OA policy forward [5.3].
RCUK commented: "RCUK welcomes       this substantial and interesting report.
It will be of great use to the       Research Councils as we develop our future policies in relation to       publishing and in particular open access" [5.4].
The Open Access       Implementation Group described its impact as "profound" in       that it generated discussions between scholarly publishing stakeholders,       provided a method for costing OA, was cited in the Finch report to support       its conclusions that OA is beneficial to the UK, and substantially       influenced the RCUK's policy on OA [5.5].
The significance of the       contribution of this work to the HE sector and to the UK economy is also       evidenced by the national media coverage generated [5.6].
The       report, and subsequent research inspired by the economic model presented       therein, sparked animated discussions with the commercial publishing       sector.
The research generated a forum for discussions between the       Publishers Association, the ALPSP (Association of Learned and Professional       Society Publishers), and the STM Association on the one hand and the JISC       on the other, over issues of immediate importance to the UK HE sector and       the UK economy, including two specific points: how can the dissemination       of research outputs be made more effective through the internet and Web       technologies; and why are subscription costs continuing to rise at rates       above inflation?
[5.7]     4.3) Research described in 2.3 outlined a way forward for the UK Research       Councils in relation to OA, building on the extensive activities already       supported through repositories such as UK PubMed Central and ESRC Society       Today.
In response to the study, the Chief Executives of the Research       Councils agreed that, over time, the UK Research Councils will support       increased open access, by:            building on their mandates on grant-holders to deposit research papers         in suitable repositories within an agreed time period, and;       extending their support for publishing in open access journals,         including through the pay-to-publish model.
This was taken forward by the Research Councils and HEFCE, and open       access to research outputs is now mandated by all UK Research Councils [5.8].
4.4) The research described in 2.4 provided a deeper understanding and a       fuller picture of author and reader attitudes towards OA, and particularly       self-archiving, for the scholarly publishing industry and the OA       community.
The findings have been discussed at length, for example [5.9],       and enabled the research community, including publishers and research       institutions, to engage in an open discussion of OA.
The multiform       evidence base gathered, as well as specific findings of the Behavioural       strand led by Fry, is influencing the work of the European Commission in       the development of its digital agenda [5.10].
The impact of this group of studies is significant in that access to       published scholarly material has been broadened out to those end-users who       otherwise might not be able to access such material due to financial       constraints.
This has been achieved through development of end-user       services, informing policy on Open Access mandates, and contributing to       the empirical evidence to support wider discussion on Open Access       publishing at the International level.
