     Impact arose in two key areas: (a) For the first time, evidence-based       policy to improve provision for       supporters was introduced to the sector; (b) Research crucially       underpinned the development of       anti-racism and other equity strategies and initiatives.
(a) Providing an evidence base     An accurate understanding of a club's fan base underpins today's       anti-racism policies and       initiatives.
The annual national fan surveys compiled for the first time       at Leicester in the mid-1990s       offered new sociological data to clubs, fans, administrators, sponsors and       local authorities about       the demographic characteristics of different fan groups.
Until then, even       major sports clubs around       the world knew very little about their own supporters and their habits and       attitudes towards their       clubs.
The research enabled clubs to make evidence-based policy for the       first time, shaping crucial       policy debates about inter alia transport use, spectator facilities, local       and non-local fan       communities, family and female fans, fan experiences of racism and       hooliganism, and patterns of       consumption around different types of English Premier League and Football       League clubs and       Premier Rugby clubs.
The Football Trust was a Government body set up to improve safety at       football stadia.
The Trust       pioneered the use of academic research on football by commissioning the       University of Leicester       to work on the Digest of Football Statistics.
The Trust's former Deputy       Chair said: "A major impact       of the Leicester research was to demonstrate beyond doubt to the UK       football authorities the       relevance and importance of research.
This impact is still felt in the       modern game &#8212; the Premier       League and Football League today are much more research-aware as a result       of the Football Trust       initiative in partnership with the University of Leicester.''
(A)     The Head of Supporter Service at the Premier League also testifies to the       impact of this early work       into the assessment period: "The work on National Supporter Surveys       initiated and conducted for       the Premier League at the University of Leicester was ground-breaking.
No       other sport anywhere       in the world had conducted research of this kind, or in this sort of       detail.
It certainly has had a major       practical impact on the way in which Premier League football clubs       understand their supporters       and their needs.
The importance of research on the demographics of fans       and on their match-day       habits, pioneered at the University of Leicester, remains something which       is central to our current       work on developing and improving football supporter services.''
(B)     (b) Shaping policy and underpinning anti-racism and equality           initiatives     Leicester's research has impacted on the national policy work of the       Professional Footballers       Association (PFA) and The Football Association (FA).
Dr Williams has       worked closely with the PFA       and FA and with national anti-racism organisations Sporting Equals       and Kick It Out throughout the       assessment period to ensure the findings of Leicester's work are       translated into practice.
Williams       has chaired one of only two major anti-racist strategy groups in England       (Foxes Against Racism)       and was a founder member of the Asians in Football Forum.
Steven Bradbury and Jim Lusted each produced Leicester-based research       co-funded by The FA       and the PFA, respectively, on racism in football that fed directly into       national policy at local and       national levels.
Williams contributed to research which has informed       national policy on sport for       people with learning disabilities.
A former Chair of the Professional Footballer's Association and the       current Governance and       Regulation consultant on The FA Group said: "The work of these colleagues       from Leicester has       collectively demonstrated the ways in which barriers to progression in       football for both black and       South Asian people operate in both institutional and very practical,       everyday ways... for example, it       has indicated definitively that some professional club staff and local       football officials still held rather       stereotypical views of some ethnic minorities.
"This research was instrumental in the introduction of more race       monitoring at football academies       and race awareness training in the professional game.
It was also       instrumental in developing       recent `ant-racist' policies, including those adopted by the Professional       Footballers Association, to       increase the numbers of black coaches in football by proposing that at       least one candidate for       every senior coaching/managing job in the professional game is from a       minority ethnic       background.''
He also confirmed that Jim Lusted's work on County FAs had impacted on       the development of FA       policy for dealing with racism at the local level and fed directly into       The FA's policy development on       race awareness issues.
"The research indicated how members of local County       FAs inadvertently       discriminated against ethnic minorities and offered recommendations for       change.
These       recommendations have been instrumental in the establishment, inside The       FA, of forums to       produce policy on opposing race exclusion in local football.
The research       has also been central in       the establishment of Race Equality Advisory Groups at national and local       County FA level, thus       ensuring more representation, and more equal treatment, of people from       minority ethnic       backgrounds in local football."
He said: "Williams has also been a key figure in promoting, through his       research, better access for       young South Asians and (my own) new coach bursary programme, The Whole       Game Initiative, has       drawn extensively on some of these Leicester findings and will have a       major impact in promoting       more opportunities in professional football for BME coaches.''
(D)     A leading authority on equality and diversity and CEO of Sporting Equals,       a national organisation       which offers extensive training programmes and strategic support to enable       clubs and sports       governing bodies to implement a social inclusion framework within their       organisations, said the       research and support work on equality issues in local and national sport       had been of considerable       importance for Sporting Equals in its continuing work nationally with       professional sports clubs and       sports governing bodies.
"William's research and his work with Sporting Equals has shaped       anti-racism policies at clubs,       including Leicester City and Liverpool FC.
His work insisted that clubs       and governing bodies reflect       on their own practices and work to eradicate informal forms of racism.
He       confirmed "change has       occurred here, in terms of race monitoring and clubs achieving Race       Equality Standards.
The       practical positive impact of the work conducted at Leicester on sports       equality (especially in       football) has been widely felt, highlighting a number of crucial access,       policy and training issues       that we at Sporting Equals are addressing with our clients and partners in       sport.''
(E)     CEO of Special Olympics GB, the national body which organises sport for       people with learning       disabilities, said: "The research work undertaken on GB Special Olympics       2009 by John Williams       at the University of Leicester and colleagues from De Montfort University       is unique in its detail and       scope.
Its impact on Special Olympics and on sport for people with       learning disabilities has been to       help directly to shape future policy in this area and to help people       working in this field develop their       strategies on issues such as media coverage of learning disability sport,       ethnicity and Special       Olympics, the importance of volunteering, and the structure of future       games.
The Leicester       research has also helped bring awareness and knowledge about learning       disability sport to a much       wider audience both inside and outside the academic community.
SOGB has       been able to put the       Leicester research to very practical use and in this sense its impact will       be long-lasting and       consequential for those involved in learning disability sport."
(C)
