     Rooney's programme, in its combination of arts-based activism and public       engagement, has provided significant guidance and inspiration in tackling       socio-political fractures in the contemporary Middle East, reaching       audiences not only in Europe and the Arab world but also in the USA and       Russia.
The programme was designed to have impact simultaneously on five       fronts:     Shaping policy     Because of the horizon-scanning capacity of her research, Rooney was       invited to address the All Party Parliamentary Group at its inaugural       Global Uncertainties meeting at the House of Commons (October 2011)       towards the White Paper on national security.
Her presentation was       followed by questions from MPs and representatives from Royal United       Services Institute and Chatham House.
As a result of this briefing,       Rooney's research on the build-up to the Egyptian revolution was read by a       member of the Ministry of Defence, who praised its insights and consulted       Rooney on the use of human resources to further security policies based on       trust and cultural awareness.
[5.1]     Learning of the distinctiveness of Rooney's research through Ghada Karmi,       Roger Higginson, Head of the International Division, Department of       Culture, Media and Sport, contacted her to discuss the Israel/Palestine       conflict in relation to the Arab Spring.
She then submitted evidence to       the Foreign Affairs Select Committee on British Foreign Policy and the       Arab Spring, Higginson describing the evidence as `first rate'.
[5.2] Her       recommendation that attention be paid to the cultural self-analyses of       regional intellectuals is cited in the committee's final report, July       2012.
[5.3] In addition, her argument that it would be hypocritical not to       support Palestinian aspirations for democracy while supporting the Arab       Spring is echoed by David Cameron in his speech to the United Jewish       Israel Appeal on 15/10/2012.
[5.4] Her insights into urban unrest led to       Rooney being invited to address a further public sector audience at RUSI       on the August riots (01/10/2012).
Shaping and documenting cultural activism     In March 2010, `Radical Distrust' mounted a hip hop play, The Rebel         Cell (by and with Dizraeli and Baba Brinkman) at the premier arts       venue El Sawy Culturewheel, Cairo.
The play is about terrorism, youth       rebellion, and civil rights, and the performance climaxed with a public       discussion between the performers and the audience on change of       government, rights, and democracy.
The performance was filmed by       government-owned Nile TV, with an audience of 80m in Egypt and 350m in the       Arab world, and a recording broadcast by El Sawy Culturewheel's Al Sakia       online radio.
A hip hop workshop mounted by Radical Distrust in tandem       with the event coached Farah Medhat, who went on to become a prominent       beat boxer of the revolution as documented in the film Lyrics Revolt       (2011).
The Global Youth Cultures special issue of Wasafiri       collates the work of other prominent cultural activists with whom Rooney       and hip hop artist Blake Brandes collaborated; it was launched through a       performance to a full house (100+) at the Institute for Contemporary       Arts.
[5.5]     In addition to stimulating pre-revolutionary public debate and artistic       expression in Cairo on political resistance, Rooney conducted filmed       interviews with five Egyptian writers (early 2010) which provide evidence       of Rooney's and her interviewees' awareness of the then-evident       revolutionary mood, serving as a corrective to the narrative that insists       no one foresaw the uprisings.
The interviews therefore constitute       historically significant data and have been archived in a documentary       short, `The Road to Midan Tahrir', directed by Rooney.
[5.6] As a       recognised spokesperson on the revolution, Rooney was invited to deliver       the opening keynote at the `Women and Revolution' workshop (Ain Shams       University, 2013), and accordingly interviewed by Nile TV and by Marwa       Gadallah, Radio Cairo, Local European Service (FM 95.4).
Informing public debate     Rooney has contributed political analyses to Counterpunch of both       the Breivik killings and the London Riots.
Their influence can be seen in       that her Riots article was a Top Link on the online Huffington Post       and her Breivik/Hamlet article blogged about by Margaret Litvin (author of       Hamlet's Arab Journey), who judges it `praiseworthy' and `highly       salutary'.
[5.7] Rooney was invited to take part in a half hour debate on       Russia Today TV's CrossTalk on 03/07/2013 to provide breaking news       commentary on the events leading to the ousting of President Morsi as they       unfolded.
CrossTalk is the flagship programme of RT TV, reaching a global       audience of over 6m (higher than audience figures for comparable Al       Jazeera programmes).
The debate was also posted on YouTube (7,000 hits in       the first 4 days).
[5.8] On 13/06/2013, Rooney took part with Baroness       Tonge in a Cambridge Union debate on the Two State Solution, which also       features on YouTube (412 views in the first 6 weeks).
Building trust     The 2010 conference on `The Siege of Beirut and the Ethics of       Representation' entailed the participation of foreign correspondents who       had originally covered the siege, and it was attended by the first       secretary of the Lebanese Embassy, members of Lebanese societies and by       journalists from the World Service and ITV.
The gathering constituted an       unprecedented occasion to discuss the experience of the siege across       communities previously divided by sectarianism, proving in itself to be a       trust-building occasion.
It led to an interview with Robert Fisk by Rooney       and Rita Sakr on the ethics of reportage and Lebanese `amnesia', and to an       invitation for Rooney to present a paper, with Julia Borossa, at a       conference of mental health professionals entitled Guerre finie,         guerre infinie held at H&#244;pital Mont Lebanon, attended by embassy       officials, and reported on in L'Orient-Le Jour (28/10/2011).
Elisabeth Roudinesco, President of the International Society for       Psychiatry and Psychoanalysis, commends the constructive effects of the       research in creating confidence amongst the Lebanese to forge a truly       national memory.
[5.9]     Contributing to human rights creative outreach     Rooney was invited to read her poetry at Exiled Ink's Hospitality Poetica       event (2012), and her poems were selected by Keats House Poets (05/2013)       for the new anthology In Protest: 150 Poems for Human Rights.
Her       ongoing work on Hamlet and radicalisation towards a new play on       Palestinian prisoners and their rights (in tandem with the FCO backed       report on such) was so seminal as to be brought to the attention of the       Park Theatre by the Moving Theatre and by the writer Omar El Khairy in       July 2013, with the result that Rooney was invited to pitch for, and       succeeded in obtaining, a four week run.
This result evidences significant       impact extending beyond the census period, with Rooney acting since July       as both executive producer and contributor to the creative team for The         Keepers of Infinite Space, written by El Khairy with contributions       by Rooney, world premiere 22/01/2014.
The research on Beirut led to       dialogue with multi-award-winning film-maker Mai Masri from July 2011       onwards regarding how it may be used to inform future art works, Masri       affirming its importance for her vision.
[5.10] Beyond the census period,       Masri and Rooney are collaborating on the filming of a Global       Uncertainties documentary.
The uptake of the research by creative       beneficiaries concerned with human rights in the public domain       demonstrates the enabling momentum that the programme has served to       generate, establishing productive new partnerships so as to perpetuate the       outreach already achieved.
Since 2009 Rooney's research has radiated out to have significant impacts       on five fronts internationally: shaping policy, shaping and documenting       cultural activism, informing public debate, building trust, and       contributing to human rights creative outreach, all of which evidence how       impact can be achieved and made intrinsic to research of the highest       excellence in postcolonial studies.
