     The research described in section two has led to the implementation of an       improved recruitment       process for core training and specialty training posts in medical related       fields in the UK, primarily in       shortlisting methodology and selection centre recruitment.
Results from the SJT pilot on shortlisting methodology were presented to       the DH Medical       Programme Board (MPB) in November 2011.
It was highlighted that the SJT       developed in the       research provides an objective marker of candidate performance that is       standardised across       multiple units of application, and recommended that further work should       progress to explore its       development in support of the MPB's aim to improve the validity and       reliability of specialty       selection.
This recommendation has been taken forward by the UK       Postgraduate Medical and       Dental Selection and Recruitment Project Board with Gale acting as an       advisor to its Quality       Group.
In 2011 the Royal College of Anaesthetists' national recruitment       committee implemented the self-scoring       method for shortlisting based on the Portfolio self-score template       developed by Gale and       Roberts et al.
Strong correlations between self-score and verified       portfolio assessor scores at       interview were found (r=0.92 p&lt;0.001), which has obviated the need for       assessors in each       Deanery in the UK to take part in scoring applications for the purposes of       shortlisting (therefore       creating time efficiencies): for example, in the first round of interviews       for anaesthesia in 2013,       1012 applicants were interviewed in 18 deaneries; all applicants were       ranked for interview based       on portfolio self-score and no assessors were needed to shortlist in any       Deanery.
In 2006 the British Medical Association stated that there was       insufficient evidence to support the       recommendation of any one particular interview method for recruitment to       specialty medical       training in the UK, despite traditional panel interviews being subject to       error and biased scoring.
Overcoming this lack of guidance, Roberts and Gale's pilot phase research       on the selection centre       model for recruitment to anaesthesia, drawing on recommendations from the       Douglas Review,       employed a four station model including: structured interview;       presentation of a portfolio; an oral       presentation; and a simulation excise.
Two further stations were       introduced in 2009, including:       difficult communication utilising simulated patients, and telephone       communication.
The concluding       report on the success of the pilot approach, presented to the RCoA and DH       in 2010, led to a new       national model for recruitment to anaesthesia and the UK: the national       selection centre model was       standardised to include three (of the six pilot) stations with two       independent raters in each station:       structured interviews, portfolio and oral presentation.
Gale and Robert's       research was central to       this development, as highlighted by the Recruitment Committee Chair of the       RCoA... "this work, of         national importance has had significant positive impact to anaesthesia         recruitment and set the         conditions for further improvement towards coordinated national         recruitment".
In addition, scoring matrices for non-technical skills developed by Gale       and Roberts have been       introduced nationally and an on-line assessor training tool for all       interviewers involved in national       selection for anaesthesia training posts developed.
This training provides       familiarisation with best       practice in interview methods and includes film examples with actors       playing the role of the       applicant.
The training has been accessed by 539 assessors across England,       Wales, Scotland and       Northern Ireland, and "has been instrumental in ensuring standardised         interview techniques across         all Units of Application, meeting GMC requirements" (RCoA,       President).
The changes to national recruitment established a single       application-interview process for       anaesthesia and ACCS training posts, which impacted considerably on the       efficiency of the       recruitment system.
As part of the AoMRC selection pilot, data on all       applications to acute       specialties was obtained from 13 of 14 English deaneries in 2010; the data       showed that a total of       1,498 doctors made 5,118 applications for acute specialty training posts.
The number of       applications per doctor ranged from 1 to 33 (median = 2).
After the       introduction of the single       interview process, RCoA data for 2012 showed that recruitment for core       training in anaesthesia       and ACCS involved only one application by each candidate, with 972 doctors       being interviewed for       538 posts.
The efficiency in the recruitment system in turn means that       resources (both human and       capital) are able to be invested elsewhere in the medical system,       ultimately leading to improved       services for patients and beneficiaries.
