     The Nature of the Impact:     The research was central in: (i) the creation of a Palestinian national       committee on climate change;       (ii) the implementation of climate change policy recommendations within       the Palestinian Authority;       and (iii) the inclusion of climate change adaptation as a priority in the       2011-2013 Strategic Plan for       UNDP's Programme of Assistance to the Palestinian People.
The underlying research has been recognised by the Intergovernmental       Panel on Climate Change       (IPCC) as providing lessons for the management of climate risk in       (post-)conflict environments       (Fifth Assessment Report, Working Group II draft contribution).
Palestinian media reporting of the       underlying research covers both its core findings on climate vulnerability       and its policy impact       [A,B].
Links Between Research and Impacts:     (i) Creation of Palestinian National Committee for Climate Change     The UNDP report, informed by the underpinning research, noted that       climate risk management       should be a priority for the Palestinian Authority, advising the creation       of a national committee to       combat climate change.
The specific recommendation was that the remit of       an existing National       Committee to Combat Desertification could be broadened to include climate       change [C p. 53].
In       practice, authorised by Cabinet decree, a new National Committee for       Climate Change composed       of 21 members (both governmental and non-governmental experts) was       created.
Its first meeting       took place on 24 August 2010.
The national political importance accorded to the research is clear from       references to it by       Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad at a 2009 UN climate       change conference [D,J].
He affirmed the holistic concept of climate vulnerability       developed by the underpinning research,       noting that conflict-related conditions are responsible for producing some       aspects of Palestinian       vulnerability to climate change.
Senior environment ministry       representatives attest to the report       being `a catalyst' for the formation of the National Committee for Climate       Change [F], and also that       it has provided policy content for committee discussions on climate       adaptation and mitigation [F,       G].
(ii) The implementation of climate policy recommendations within the         Palestinian Authority     The UNDP report, informed by the underpinning research, featured concrete       proposals on       institutional capacity-building [C pp.
51-58].
Central to these was the       recommendation that the       climate change responsibilities of the national Environmental Quality       Authority (now Ministry of       Environment) should be organisationally and technically strengthened [C p.       55].
As a result of this       call, a Climate Change Unit was established in the ministry [F].
Its terms       of reference closely       mirrored technical recommendations in the UNDP climate adaptation       strategy, notably proposals       on climate modelling, vulnerability mapping and the development of a       drought early warning       system [C pp.
50-51, 55].
The underpinning research identified both the Palestinian water       infrastructure and the agricultural       sector as especially sensitive to climate variability and change, but       concluded that these       vulnerabilities are partly produced or exacerbated by the       Israeli-Palestinian conflict (section 2).
This finding informed the politically and technically realistic selection       of climate adaptation       measures, such as greater use of treated wastewater/water harvesting and       an increased uptake of       drought-tolerant crop selections [C pp.
41-47].
These adaptation options       are being implemented on       a pilot basis under a joint UNDP-Ministry of Environment project       (2012-2015) funded by the       Government of Belgium [H, J].
(iii) The inclusion of climate change adaptation as a priority in         UNDP's 2011-2013 Strategic Plan     The underpinning research influenced international organisations and NGOs       working on       environmental issues in the occupied Palestinian territory [G, I], and       also supported Palestinian       participation in the UN climate change convention [F, J].
Its most       significant decision-making       impact, outside of the Palestinian Authority, has been on UNDP.
Climate       change was not       previously part of UNDP's strategy for the occupied Palestinian territory       but, because of the report       [C], it is now a priority under its 2011-2013 Strategic Plan [J] and       features as a focus area in its       Consolidated Plan of Assistance 2012-2014, which summarises the findings       and key       recommendations of the climate change adaptation strategy [E p. 28].
The       research finding that       historic forms of household and community coping by Palestinians in the         face of climate hazards         provides lessons for climate change adaptation (section 2) informs       current UNDP work with       marginal Bedouin communities in heavily restricted Israeli-controlled       zones (`Area C') in the West       Bank [J].
This development work demonstrates that the traditional       knowledge and agricultural       practices of the Bedouin provide livelihood options appropriate to       semi-arid environments.
It also       feeds into a wider UNDP project on agricultural land protection and       development in the West Bank.
Wider Implications: it is likely that livelihoods in Palestine       will be significantly and negatively       impacted by human-induced climate change.
Research in this Unit has       informed policy outputs for       protecting livelihoods in a planned and deliverable manner.
