     Beyani's impact on the law relating to refugee protection is distinctive,       has considerable reach and significance, and is closely and demonstrably       connected to underpinning research cited in section 3.
Beyani 2000a       underpins the formulation of the African Union (Kampala) Convention for       the Protection and Assistance of Internally Displaced Persons (2009).
In       that study (2000a: 146-7) and in a follow-up essay (2013a: 25-34), Dr       Beyani sets out criteria for determining the rights of internally       displaced Africans to bring actions against their states of origin.
Those       criteria are partly replicated in Article 4 of the Kampala Convention.
On       the basis of his scholarship, Dr Beyani was from 2004 to 2009 accorded a       lead role in the treaty making process of the African Union: this resulted       in the adoption of the Kampala Convention in 2009 (details on Dr Beyani's       role can be found in the Brookings Institution's documentary on his work -       section 5, source 5 &#8212; and in Beyani 2008: 197).
This Convention is the       first to create binding obligations on how to protect and provide       assistance to persons displaced within states by causes such as violations       of human rights, generalized violence, armed conflict, and natural or       human made disasters.
From 2004 to 2006, Dr Beyani led the treaty making process of the       International Conference of the Great Lakes Region, resulting in the       adoption of the Great Lakes Region of the Pact on Security, Stability and       Development (section 5, sources 1, 2 and 3).
This Pact was devised as a       means to end conflict in the Great Lakes Region where five States had       recently gone to war.
Since it was agreed in 2006, the Pact has been used       by the Foreign Ministers of the Great Lakes Region as the basis for their       twice-yearly meetings to examine issues relating to peace, security, and       development, and make recommendations to the Heads of State of the Summit:       in August 2012, for example, the Pact formed the framework of the Great       Lakes foreign affairs ministers' efforts to find a solution to the       conflict in the eastern District Republic of Congo ("Great Lakes Ministers       for Neutral Force in DRC", Observer 7 August 2012).
Portions of       Beyani 2000a inform his contribution to the drafting of the Great Lakes       Protocols.
For example, the wording of Article 4(g) of the Protocol on the       Protection and Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons -     "Member States undertake to ... [e]nsure freedom of movement and choice       of residence within designated areas of location, except when restrictions       on such movement and residence are necessary, justified, and       proportionate"     - finds its early form in Beyani 2000a: 60:     "Standards pertaining to the movement and residence of persons in       regional entities ... [to be] determined on an objective basis by       reference to the justification, the reasonableness, and the proportion of       the act complained of".
Beyani was among the team of experts appointed by the International       Commission on State Intervention and Sovereignty to formulate the       responsibility to protect.
He was assigned the task of examining `state       sovereignty' and `intervention' in international law.
His findings were       reflected in the formulation of the Responsibility to Protect as endorsed       by the World Summit Outcome in 2005 in General Assembly Resolution       A/RES/60/1.
2005, para 138:     "Each individual State has the responsibility to protect its populations       from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity.
This responsibility entails the prevention of such crimes, including their       incitement, through appropriate and necessary means".
In developing this formulation, Beyani relied on research undertaken and       published in chapter 1 of 2013a, where an early attempt at the formulation       can be found at pp.4-5:     "Th[e] concept [of state sovereignty] cannot be examined in isolation of       its function in the system of international order ... [but rather must be]       be based on the idea of sovereignty as underlying a primary responsibility       for states to protect the safety, lives, welfare, and well-being of       persons, and to discharge the functions of government adequately".
The Responsibility to Protect was invoked by the UN Security Council in       its resolution S/RES/1973 (2011) in relation to Libya (authorizing "all       necessary measures" to protect civilians) and in its resolution S/RES/1975       (2011) in relation to Ivory Coast ("Reaffirming [the Council's] strong       commitment to the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and       unity of C&#244;te d'Ivoire ...").
Why the impact matters.
There are two important consequences which       derive from Beyani's research having had the impact demonstrated in this       study: a) the rights of refugees (and, especially, internally displaced       persons) are better protected than had been the case before Beyani was       given the opportunity to put his research to practical effect; and b) the       African constitution- and treatise-building initiatives detailed in this       study would, but for Beyani's interventions based on his underpinning       research, be at a significantly less advanced stage.
