     Essex research demonstrated the viability of using chlorophyll       fluorescence imaging as a       mainstream screening tool for rapid and non-invasive evaluation of a       plant's photosynthetic       efficiency and underlying metabolic processes.
The Fo' calculation       developed by Baker and his       group (meaning that the previously problematic necessity of obtaining       measurements following a       far-red pulse could be avoided), along with Bartington's work in       supporting this principle as a       practical reality, has underpinned significant impact through a number of       strands.
A key step towards the now widespread proliferation of chlorophyll       fluorescence imaging was the       establishment of the University spinout, Technologica, in 2001.
In       bringing the imaging technique       to a wider audience, Technologica has generated a number of       commercial impacts, all of which are       underpinned by the original research of the Essex group.
The company was       sold to John       Bartington in 2006, with the University continuing to receive royalties       from its commercial activities       until the license was bought out by Bartington in 2009.
Both during and       since this period,       Technologica has followed a highly proactive marketing strategy,       including participation and       sponsorship of plant physiology conferences [see corroborating source 1,       page 3], publication of       flyers and a company website.
The company also uses scientific advisors to       market the CFImager       to large commercial manufactures, illustrated through the proactive       targeting of Syngenta (in the       UK) and Monsanto (in the US).
To complement these activities, a close       relationship is retained with       researchers at Essex, providing synergistic benefit through shared       intelligence of developments       and priorities in both academic and commercial domains.
With the CFImager as its flagship product, Technologica has       experienced a period of sustained       growth.
Beyond operation in the UK, its worldwide network now comprises       agents in China, India,       Taiwan, Japan, Korea, Turkey and Brazil [2].
Through this network, in the       period 2006-12, 42 units       have been sold.
In the more recent past, the company's performance has       continued to follow an       upward trend; in the past three years its highest ever levels of profit       have been recorded, totalling       ~&#163;115k.
In this time Technologica has also paid dividends to its       shareholders [3] [4] and the       company's sustained commercial success has paved the way for new product       development.
To       complement the CFImager, the company will shortly launch the IsoLight,       a new product which also       draws directly on the novel LED lighting technology developed at Essex       [5].
Through its energetic marketing and development activities, Technologica       has played a key role in       making chlorophyll fluorescence imaging commonplace both in research       laboratories and the plant       industry.
In an email testimony [6], a Secondary Profile Screening Manager       from Syngenta       explains how Essex's research has served to "greatly extend the potential       of fluorescence imaging       as a rapid and non-invasive screening technique" and is "in broad use in       commercial screening       and imaging communities".
He goes on to outline how Syngenta has made       "extensive use of the       process pioneered at Essex" and has purchased a CFImager, noting that,       amongst other benefits,       "The fact that this device can accommodate high throughput screening, and       enable rapid imaging       of transient effects, has distinct positive implications relating to       glasshouse time and resource       efficiencies".
In addition to the impact of Technologica, the Essex group's       novel method of calculating Fo' has       been widely incorporated into commercial instruments from a number of       other manufacturers.
This       is detailed in letters of support from: (i) Heinz Walz GmbH       (`Walz'), a producer of sophisticated       measuring devices for plant research, based in Germany; and (ii) Photon         Systems Instruments       (`PSI'), a plant science, biotechnology and agriculture company based in       the Czech Republic.
In       that [chlorophyll fluorescence imaging] could be used as a viable,       mainstream tool to enable rapid       and non-invasive plant imaging".
He goes on to describe how Essex's       results, such as those       published by Barbagallo et al., 2003, have had significant       influence, noting that "the Essex       technique is used in our range of PAM-Chlorophyll Fluorometers,       including our new Multi-Colour-PAM".
The second letter [8], from PSI's CEO, also acknowledges the importance of       Essex's       research, highlighting, in particular, Oxborough and Baker, 1997       and Barbagallo et al., 2003.
The       letter goes on to explain that:     "Oxborough and Baker's research has been widely cited and now forms the       basis of screening       implementations offered by a range of manufacturers, including a number of       PSI's own       commercial products.
As an example, the Essex technique is incorporated       into PSI's FluorCam       product family".
CEO, Photon Systems Instruments     In another example, the Marine Systems Group of Chelsea Technologies         Group Ltd has developed       multi-parameter sensors for monitoring physical, optical and biological       oceanographic and       freshwater environments.
Chlorophyll fluorescence imaging is a technique       enabled by a number of       the Group's products, whose manuals cite, for instance, Oxborough and         Baker, 1997 [9].
Finally, whether through use of Technologica's CFImager, or the       commercial implementations of       other manufacturers, an overarching impact of Essex's chlorophyll       fluorescence imaging research       has been to inform crop production.
In an email testimony, Bayer       CropScience's Head of Protein       and Product Characterization (Essex's industrial collaborator in Barbagallo         et al., 2003) explains       the significance of the Essex technique in the context of industrial       applications [10].
His account       highlights the appropriateness of screening for identifying new leads as       herbicides and plant       growth regulating molecules, as well as new trait discovery in       agricultural biotechnology.
He       concludes: "non-destructive chlorophyll fluorescence imaging technologies       provide a valuable tool       to underpin high throughput screening in the Crop Protection and       Agricultural Biotechnology       industry".
