     The research directly resulted in a new smoking cessation support service       in England delivered by       text message, with tens of thousands of smokers signing up, as well as       considerable national and       international public interest in the txt2stop trial findings.
Similar       schemes are in the early stages of       roll-out in several other countries.
Following the publication of the paper in The Lancet3.3       in 2011, the Tobacco Control Marketing       Team for the Department of Health (DH) in England approached Free to help       them develop a new       text messaging service.
Free advised the DH regarding the text message       content for the       intervention and provided extensive feedback on the messages written.
She       also gave advice       regarding the design of the intervention covering the delivery system       requirements, message       frequency and the interactive features required.5.1 The service       was made available free at the point       of delivery from the NHS Stop Smoking website in January 2012.5.2       By the end of March 2013,       over 34,000 smokers had joined the programme.
The DH Senior Campaigns       Manager states that       the service `continues to be a great success' and that `we look forward to       continuing to work with       you, and particularly on the academic evaluation to compare the success       rates of the 12 week       programme to the 28 day programme'.5.3     Free was invited to present her research findings to the European Society       for Research on       Nicotine and Tobacco in Helsinki in 2012; around 100 delegates listened to       her presentation.5.4       She was also asked to present her findings at the Royal College of General       Practitioners       conference in the UK twice, in 2011 and 2012,5.5, 5.6 with       around 100 GPs attending the first time.
The second time it was a plenary presentation at a conference attracting       over 4,000 GPs.
Her       paper was voted the research paper of the year by the Royal College of       General Practitioners in       the primary care category.
The research and the new service also received       the BUPA Healthy       Lives Prize 2012, an award which honours research enabling sustained       behaviour changes       towards a healthy lifestyle.5.7     As a result of presenting her findings, Free received a number of       enquiries from international       organisations.
WHO used the txt2stop campaign in a presentation and panel       discussion for       member states focused on mHealth (health-related messages delivered by       mobile phone) in       Geneva in May 2013.
The event was hosted by Costa Rica, which in April       2013 had become the       first to roll out its own equivalent of the txt2stop campaign.
At least       175 delegates from WHO       member states, civil society, private sector representatives and the media       attended; Turkey, Israel       and Estonia were shown to have taken steps to introduce mHealth campaigns       to help people stop       smoking.
WHO invited Free to be a member of the WHO informal working group       on m-cessation in       recognition of her `leadership and experience in m-cessation'.5.8     In the USA, Agile Health &#8212; a commercial provider of mobile health care       engagement solutions &#8212;       based their Kick Buts programme, launched in 2012, on the LSHTM and STOMP       trials.5.9 A       technologically improved version, Kick Buts 2.0, offering Facebook       integration and a Spanish       language version among other things, was launched in January 2013.
By the       middle of 2013, 1,000       people had signed up to Kick Buts.
The research received extensive media coverage in June 2011, appearing in       national and       international newspapers, on radio, television and the internet.
Examples       include a live interview       Free gave on the Today programme on BBC Radio 4; an interview for       SKY News radio, syndicated       for 300+ UK commercial radio stations; and interviews on three major local       BBC radio stations       (London, Sheffield, Three Counties).
There was also extensive coverage in       the print media,       including the Daily Mail and local papers.
Examples of online       coverage included Bloomberg, BBC       News online and Guardian online.
The research findings were also picked up       by news agencies       such as Reuters and the Press Association.
Put together, the coverage in       June 2011 would have       reached millions of people in the UK, widely raising awareness and       understanding of the       effectiveness of text messaging for people trying to quit smoking.5.10     Internationally, too, the research findings were very widely reported.
Numerous TV outlets in       Bangladesh, Brunei, India, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan,       Taiwan, Thailand and       Vietnam picked up a newsreel produced by AP in 2011, featuring Free       talking about her findings.
Free was also interviewed by USA Today (June 2011), and a video       release made available by       LSHTM was widely used.5.10
