     Links from Research to Impact:     The impact of the research and its findings has been twofold.
First, it       has changed the terms of the debate: ministers and officials are       increasingly aware that land use policy has substantial economic impacts.
These are felt in both the housing market (on house prices relative to       incomes, and market volatility), and in the supply side of the wider       economy (through the effect of land supply restrictions on productive       sectors).
Second, the findings have influenced government thinking and       specific government policies, across a range of housing and planning       issues.
These insights have had a cumulative impact, visible in the       policies of the Blair and Brown Labour governments (Sources A-D), the       current Coalition (Sources G,H) and international organisations (Source       E).
Nature of the Impact:     The process whereby this research entered government thinking started in       1997 when the then DETR commissioned a project from Cheshire and Sheppard       to quantify the impact on house prices of alternative patterns of land       release.
The headline finding &#8212; that a policy forcing 60% of new       construction onto `brownfield' sites would be associated with a 132%       increase in real house prices by 2016 &#8212; helped establish the first Barker       Review (2003-4).
Cheshire's work was highly influential in the two Barker reviews of the       planning system (sources A-D).
Both Reviews extensively quoted from       underpinning research output items [1], [2] and [4] as well as other work       by Cheshire and associates.
On page 40 of Barker (source B) the proposal       to use price signals generated by land markets was quoted extensively and       subsequently influenced the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF)       [source J] of 2012.
The work on price signals was again quoted extensively       in Chapter 8 of Barker (source C), as was work by Cheshire and Hilber [5]       on planning restrictions and office costs [source C, Para 1.21 pgs       175-78].The Barker Reviews in turn led to two new Planning Acts (2004 and       2008).
These in turn led to setting up the Regional Spatial Strategies,       the Infrastructure Planning Commission and The National Housing and       Planning Advice Unit, of which Cheshire was a Board member until its       abolition in June 2010.
Although most of these institutional changes were swept away after the       elections in May 2010, the insights of the underpinning research and the       related policy recommendations continued strongly to influence policy.
For       example Cheshire, in a memo to Barker and the Treasury (HMT) (03/10/2006),       argued for using Impact Fees rather than Planning Gain Supplement then       favoured to offset for costs imposed on the community by development.
The       subsequent Planning Act of 2008 introduced the Community Infrastructure       Levy (CIL) &#8212; equivalent to an Impact Fee.
The Coalition announced in 2010       that it would retain CIL.
Although the Infrastructure Planning Commission       was abolished, the principle which it embodied &#8212; that infrastructure of       national significance should not be subject to the process of local       development control &#8212; was retained.
Many specific recommendations in the       NPPF (such as using market signals and the need for planning policies to       reflect the economic gains of development) directly reflected the work of       Cheshire and colleagues.
Cheshire was also invited to give both written       and oral evidence to the House of Commons Select Committee on the       Environment's hearings on the draft NPPF [source I].
Ministers' statements       continue to reflect these contributions to the Committee, such as the       Planning Minister Nick Boles's call on 11 January 2013 to permit new       building on Greenfield sites.
The research on office costs and now supermarket productivity has       persuaded the UK government of the contribution land use planning makes to       the structural obstacles on the supply side of the British economy.
This       has clearly fed into Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS)       and HMT policy documents (sources G,H), in particular, the introduction of       financial incentives for local authorities to encourage house building       (New Homes Bonus finalised in 2011) and `pro-growth' economic development       (Business Rate retention (source K) introduced in April 2013).
Extensive       quotations from the underpinning research reveals how the proposals       adopted were influenced by it.
Cheshire and Hilber's work on office costs       [5] was notably influential on Business Rates retention.
Both Cheshire and       Overman had close contact with officials as these policy innovations were       developed.
Cheshire and colleagues have also influenced wider policymaking       processes, through work with other UK and international actors.
For       example, following the General Election of 2010 Cheshire was appointed to       the Department for Communities and Local Government's (DCLG's) Planning       Sounding Board.
Cheshire and Overman briefed incoming BIS ministers in       June 2010 and in July 2011 briefed the Secretary of State in BIS.
Cheshire       has presented aspects of the work to seminars and workshops for the       Government Economic Service, HMT, DCLG, Cabinet Office and BIS as well as       having one-on-one meetings with senior officials.
He has also contributed       to the Bank of England Residential Property Forum, provided a discussion       paper for Foresight's The Future of Land Use (source F) and given       presentations at the OECD and prepared a briefing paper for OECD on the       role of `green cities' and the development of policies for the built       environment to help limit carbon emissions.
In late 2012 Cheshire was       asked to advise the New Zealand Treasury on reform of planning policy and       has since briefed the NZ Deputy Prime Minister on his visit to London in       late June 2013.
Cheshire was recently named as one of just five academics       in the magazine Planning's list of 100 most influential people in       UK planning (source L).
Wider Implications: Land use planning policies designed without       regard for either how land markets operate or the critical importance of       both space and precise location for housing welfare and productivity have       imposed significant costs on firms and households in Britain.
Designing       planning policies so they better reflect economic efficiency while at the       same time they protect the environment better would make a major       contribution to both welfare and economic productivity and growth.
