     Our research since 1993 has developed new treatments for HL and has       improved outcomes for patients who do not respond to conventional therapy.
Firstly, we demonstrated the advantages of autologous stem cell       transplantation, then refined this technique by establishing the correct       dose range for the infused stem cells.
Secondly, for the subset of these       patients who subsequently relapsed after autologous stem cell       transplantation, we pioneered allogenic stem cell transplantation to       exploit the graft versus tumour effect of foreign stem cells.
In       particular, we developed reduced intensity allogenic transplants (RITs),       which are less toxic than standard allogenic transplants, and which could       be boosted by additional infusion of donor cells once the graft was       established.
High dose therapy and autologous transplantation, as developed at UCL,       are currently the standard treatment for relapsed and resistant HL.
This       recommendation was confirmed in 2012 in the updated clinical practice       guidelines of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (USA) [a],       and remains the standard throughout Europe [b].
Peggs recently       chaired the expert panel on behalf of British Committee for Standards in       Haematology for the development of guidelines in relapsed and resistant       HL, which confirmed this position in the UK [c].
In the last five years approximately 880 patients with relapsed and       resistant HL have been treated in the UK with ASCT [d] and we       estimate that 400 patients have been cured.
In Europe 9,500 patients with       relapsed and resistant HL underwent ASCT 2006-10, most using the BEAM       regimen [e], with an estimated 4,300 cured.
Following the successful results published from UCL, the number of RITs       in relapsed and resistant HL has steadily risen in the UK, from 14 per       annum in 2003/4, to 38-44 by 2006/7, and 62-64 by 2010/11, a rise of over       300% [d].
This has also been the basis for the development of a       prospective study in the UK (PAIReD), badged by both the NIHR Cancer       Research Network (NCRN) and the British Society for Blood and Marrow       Transplantation Clinical Trials Committee (BSBMT-CTC).
Based on the       outcomes achieved at our centre, we can predict that approximately 30-35       patients are cured per year in the UK as a result of the allogeneic RIT       strategy (equivalent to 150-175 over a five-year period), and that this       number will increase with earlier application in the treatment pathway.
As a result of the work at UCL, Peggs was asked to chair the BSBMT       `indications' panel for lymphomas.
The indications-tables are used as a       template for commissioning transplant services in the UK.
Allogeneic       transplantation is now designated a `standard' therapy in patients with HL       who have relapsed following ASCT, and as a `clinical option' in those with       primary resistant or relapsed disease who remain chemo-sensitive [f].
This ensures funding and equitable access to such therapies for all       patients who might benefit from them across the UK.
