     NATURE OF THE IMPACT: Stern developed dialogues on climate finance during       2008 and 2009 with a number of leaders and ministers in key countries,       outlining the case for significant funding for developing countries.
In       June 2009, the UK Prime Minister, Gordon Brown (Brown, 2009: Source A),       announced his support for a fund to provide $100 billion a year from the       rich countries to developing countries by 2020.
Stern worked closely with the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Meles Zenawi,       ahead of the UN climate change conference in Copenhagen in December 2009       on the development of a proposal to be presented at the negotiations to       commit rich countries to providing $50 billion by 2015 and $100 billion by       2020, and to establish a mechanism through which to explore potential       sources.
The Times newspaper noted: `The compromise was brokered by Lord       Stern of Brentford, the leading climate change economist, who has been       advising the Ethiopian and British delegations in Copenhagen' (Webster,       2009: B).
Prime Minister Meles put forward the proposal on 16 December       2009, and it received the backing of the United States and other countries       in the following days (Goldenberg, 2009: C).
Although no comprehensive       international agreement was reached at COP15 in Copenhagen, the Copenhagen       Accord, which has been agreed by 141 Parties and noted by the other       Parties, included the following statement (UNFCCC, 2009; D):     `Scaled up, new and additional, predictable and adequate funding as well       as improved access shall be provided to developing countries, in       accordance with the relevant provisions of the Convention, to enable and       support enhanced action on mitigation, including substantial finance to       [R]educe [E]missions from [D]eforestation and forest [D]egradation &#8212;       REDD-plus, adaptation, technology development and transfer and       capacity-building, for enhanced implementation of the Convention.
The       collective commitment by developed countries is to provide new and       additional resources, including forestry and investments through       international institutions, approaching $30 billion for the period       2010-2012 with balanced allocation between adaptation and mitigation.
Funding for adaptation will be prioritized for the most vulnerable       developing countries, such as the least developed countries, small island       developing States and Africa.
In the context of meaningful mitigation       actions and transparency on implementation, developed countries commit to       a goal of mobilizing jointly $100 billion dollars a year by 2020 to       address the needs of developing countries.
This funding will come from a       wide variety of sources, public and private, bilateral and multilateral,       including alternative sources of finance.
New multilateral funding for       adaptation will be delivered through effective and efficient fund       arrangements, with a governance structure providing for equal       representation of developed and developing countries.
A significant       portion of such funding should flow through the Copenhagen Green Climate       Fund.'
In February 2010, the UN Secretary-General announced the establishment of       a High Level Working Group on Climate Change Financing, to be chaired by       Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles and Prime Minister Brown (later replaced by       Prime Minister Stoltenberg of Norway), and including Stern among its       members.
The Group was asked to undertake a study on potential sources of       revenue for the scaling up of new and additional resources from developed       countries for financing climate change mitigation and adaptation       activities in developing countries.
Stern contributed to a number of       analytical papers about different potential sources of revenue, which were       produced to inform the deliberations of the Group.
The Group's final report was published in November 2010 ahead of the 16th       session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC in Canc&#250;n, Mexico,       concluding that it was `challenging but feasible' to meet the goal of       providing developing countries with $100 billion a year from public and       private sources by 2020.
The report emphasised the importance of a carbon       price in the range of $20-25 per ton of carbon-dioxide-equivalent as a key       element of reaching the target (United Nations, 2010: E).
The Parties at       COP16 acknowledged the work of the Group and incorporated the commitments       by rich countries to provide $30 billion between 2010 and 2012, and $100       billion a year by 2020, as well as establishing a new Green Climate Fund       to facilitate some of the financial transfers to developing countries       (UNFCCC, 2011: F).
The 17th session of the Conference of the Parties       (COP17) to the UNFCCC, in Durban in December 2011, established a work       programme on long-term climate finance, drawing on the work of the High       Level Advisory Group on Climate Change Financing, to explore how to scale       up the $30 billion fast-start finance provide between 2010 and 2012 to       meet the target of $100 billion a year by 2020 (UNFCCC, 2012: G).
By the end of 2012, developed countries reported that they had exceeded       their fast-start finance goal (CFU, 2013: H).
Overall, in the words of       Andrew Steer (2013: Source I): `There is no doubt that Lord Stern's work       has had a more important impact on climate finance developments than any       other body of work.
I was Director-General in the UK Department for       International Development (DFID) at the time of the Copenhagen climate       negotiations ...
The commitment of advanced countries to provide $100       billion per year for climate investments in developing countries owes much       of its intellectual basis to Lord Stern.
...
The High Level Commission on       Climate Finance set up by Ban Ki Moon and chaired (initially) by PM Gordon       Brown [UK] and PM Meles Zenawi [Ethiopia] was, in many ways, an outcome of       Stern's research and influence.
During the course of that High Level       Panel's work Lord Stern was the dominant intellectual leader, drawing upon       the results of his research program'.
WHY THE IMPACT MATTERS: The potential cost of climate change if nothing       is done is conservatively estimated at several percentage points of global       income, averaged over location, time, and possible outcomes.
The potential       global temperature increases that could arise from inaction have not been       seen on the planet for millions or tens of millions, of years and are way       beyond the experience of homo sapiens.
Such changes could involve the       movement of hundreds of millions of people and severe and extended       conflict.
Stern's analyses of potential impacts, and possible responses,       have contributed significantly to &#8212; and on key occasions led &#8212; the agenda       for addressing the problem.
These risks, and how they can be radically reduced, matter for investment       reasons (spending now reduces the future costs of climate change); they       matter for insurance reasons [J]; and they matter for reasons of       distributive justice: `[e]ven if environmental costs were distributed       equally ... developing countries would still bear 80% of the burden       (because they account for 80% of world population).
As it is, they bear an       even greater share, though their ... carbon footprints are much smaller'       [K].
