     Essex research had, for the first time, shown that chemically modified       porous polyethylene could       be effectively used for protein immobilisation.
Furthermore, its use in       bead-based matrices could       offer both technical and practical advantages over existing processes.
Use       of this new technique       demonstrated the potential to add value in a wide range of contexts,       extending beyond the Essex       group's original field of research.
Through their early and active       engagement with the industrial       partner Porvair Filtration Group Ltd, Essex researchers maximised this       potential, and enabled       research insight to be effectively used to underpin commercial impact.
Porvair is a world-leading specialist filtration and environmental       technology group involved in       designing, developing and manufacturing filtration and separation       solutions to a range of industry       sectors, including the aviation, molten metal, energy, water treatment and       life sciences markets.
Historically, the company had principally manufactured industrial grades       of porous polyethylene       and polypropylene materials, for applications such as silencers for       airlines and low cost filters.
However, at the time of initial engagement with Essex, Porvair sought to       better differentiate itself       from competitors through re-direction of R&amp;D into new areas, where       porous materials could be       used in higher value applications for the biotechnology and       pharmaceuticals sector.
Porvair's       website explains how, alongside collaborative work with a number of other       UK universities,       partnership with Essex has allowed the company to become more competitive       and to enter these       previously unobtainable, growing markets [see corroborating source 1].
Porvair's partnership with Essex stimulated significant investment into       product development.
An       email testimony from Porvair's Head of Bioscience New Product Development       details how,       between 2004 and 2010, the company committed around &#163;450k towards       furthering the novel       bioprocessing technology provided by Essex [2].
Development activities       resulted in the production       and launch of two products for commercial exploitation.
Firstly, the       porous polyethylene material       was re-named BioVyonTM and used to develop a column for       protein/antibody purification, launched       in 2009 [3].
Secondly, a kit for chromatin-immunoprecipitation (ChIP)       assays based on       functionalised BioVyonTM &#8212; Protein A, and named ChromaTrapTM       &#8212; was launched at the       Epigenomics Congress in Boston in April 2011 [4].
Following the initial launch of the BioVyonTM column, the       feedback received indicated that further       optimisations were needed, and these are currently being conducted.
However, the second       product &#8212; ChromatrapTM &#8212; is being adopted and applied       effectively in a range of scenarios [5].
One       example is its use at the Medical College of Wisconsin.
Here, Chromatrap       has been used to assist       development of state-of-the-art pediatric healthcare within the Children's       Research Institute (CRI).
A CRI Professor of Pediatrics, Pharmacology and Toxicology comments that       "...the most       substantial advantage of the Chromatrap system is more efficient and less       variable trapping of the       immunoprecipitated chromatin such that the signal to noise ratio is larger       and influenced less by       minor variations in trapping efficiency" [6].
To support uptake and further development, Porvair have continued to       devote significant resources       to the project.
Following Chromatrap's launch, by the end of 2012 the       company had invested an       additional &#163;450k, and a further &#163;200k spend is anticipated in 2013 [2].
Throughout this time the       University has also continued to benefit from product sales, following a       licence agreement under       which the University receives a 2.5% royalty on the sale of each kit [7].
Porvair has recently applied       for patent protection in the US, Australia, Europe, China, India, Brazil       and Japan, and the       company's continued commitment to this work has also underpinned a number       of additional       benefits.
The technology that came from Essex has supported three jobs at       a business unit in       Swansea, as well as several Porvair staff throughout the company who       continue to devote a       significant amount of work to this initiative.
Since 2011 the technology       has also been responsible,       in part, for a Knowledge Transfer Partnership and a Welsh Government A4B       (Academic Expertise       for Business) project, both with Swansea University [2].
To build upon the       initial success and       momentum of its first product in this area, Porvair are also active in       investigation of expansions to       the product range.
Planned developments include gravity flow columns and       96-well plate formats,       as well as new chemistry matrices using protein G and MeDIP       functionalisation.
