     The research undertaken within Smith's programme was used to underpin the       Wakatobi Marine       National Park's application for World Heritage status.
Although this       status was not confirmed within       the REF2014 impact period, the UNESCO application did result in       designation as a Man and the         Biosphere (MAB) Reserve in 2012 [see corroborating source 1, a       letter from the Regent of the       Wakatobi].
This has triggered major on-going changes to the management and       conservation       policies within the Park, and significant economic and societal impacts       have also been realised.
The Park was designated as a Reserve for two main reasons: first, the       international importance of       the region &#8212; as demonstrated in publications produced by Smith and his       team; and second,       because Smith actively stimulated a participatory approach for research       and conservation.
UNESCO recognised these activities as demonstrating that the Wakatobi       Marine National Park is a       region that is "experimenting with and learning about sustainable       development" and is at the       forefront of programmes "to test different approaches to integrated       management of [...] coastal and       marine resources and biodiversity" [see corroborating source 2, an article       authored by UNESCO       Media Services].
The participatory approach used by Smith since 2002, in partnership with       Operation Wallacea       (OpWal), has also resulted in significant societal impact through members       of the public becoming       involved and gaining valuable experience from field-based conservation       research expeditions.
This       research-tourism model has also accumulated impact over the past 10 years       by supporting       OpWal's recruitment of these paying volunteers.
It is conservatively       estimated that around 2500       volunteers have visited the Wakatobi in the REF2014 Impact period, each       staying for an average       of six weeks [see corroborating source 3, a letter from OpWal's Wakatobi       Marine Station Manager].
Growing levels of recruitment have resulted in OpWal increasing its       turnover from &#163;250k in 2002 to       more than &#163;3M in 2011.
The company attributes its increased recruitment to       its ability to market       itself as a more credible science and conservation research organisation.
This is due to the large       volume of research published in collaboration with Smith and his team [see       corroborating source 4,       a letter from OpWal's Director].
Since the development of the       research-tourism model, Smith's       participatory research strategy, and the recognition that scientific       journal publications are a       marketable commodity, OpWal has expanded its research portfolio to recruit       volunteers to 25 sites       around the world and has offices in 10 countries [see corroborating source       3].
The commercial and research success of the partnership's activities in       the Wakatobi has led to       &#163;1.4M being injected into the local community since 2004 via employment       and other field       expenditure [see corroborating source 4], and the establishment of a new       Indonesian NGO in       2008, which provides support for local and national government activities       in the region [see       corroborating source 5, a letter from the Director of Lembaga Alam Mitra       Wakatobi, the new       Indonesian NGO].
In recognition of this success the local and central       government of Indonesia       have also invested &#163;200k into the region to establish a new research and       education centre of       excellence under the directorship of Professor Smith [see corroborating       sources 4, 6] which was       formed in 2010.
This new development is designed to capitalise on the       scientific tradition of the       area to further attract international researchers and organisations to the       Park so that the Wakatobi       may be further developed for the purposes of marine research and education       within the `Coral       Triangle' region.
In summary, Smith's thematic participatory research programme and       resulting scientific       publications have led to policy, societal and economic impact, both in the       UK and in Indonesia.
The       recognition by UNESCO of the Park's unique research and conservation       profile, as well as its       approaches towards integrated participatory management, demonstrates       policy-based impact.
The       research-tourism strategy and engagement of paying volunteers in       high-quality conservation       science (including authored publication) has delivered significant       societal impact by providing direct       research and conservation experience to approximately 2500 paying       volunteers since 2008.
Finally, the unique research-tourism business model &#8212; and the development       of research       publications as a direct marketable commodity &#8212; has led to significant       economic impact in the UK,       the economic development of local communities in Indonesia, and to       increased long-term       economic potential of the Wakatobi through the newly established centre of       excellence.
