     The research was highly influential in informing the consultations and       legislative process leading to the adoption of the EU Directive on       Patients' Rights to Healthcare in Other European Countries.
McKee and       colleagues have also advised individual governments and health care       professionals on cross-border patient mobility.
The European Parliament and the Council of Ministers adopted EU Directive       2011/24/EU in 2011.
For the LSHTM team, this marked a milestone in a       period of intensive consultation work which resulted in their findings       being used in several European Commission and Parliamentary consultative       and working papers.
Patient Mobility in the European Union: Study on         Legislative Proposals on Patients' Rights in Cross-Border Health Care       (2008)5.1 uses McKee's findings on the slow emergence of       patient mobility on the European health policy agenda, on controversial       court rulings, and his work for the European Observatory.
A Commission       staff working document accompanying the Directive proposal (2008) uses his       findings on cross-border care in Slovenia, Austria and Italy.5.2       A consultation paper from the EU Commission, published in 2006 but       directly relevant to the eventual shape of the 2011 Directive, quotes       McKee's findings on problems in cross-border health care due to       incompatible rules between the countries concerned.5.3 The       quotes below amplify these uses.
The importance of McKee's work for the European Commission was underlined       by Nick Fahy, former head of the Unit for Health Information at the       Commission and former Deputy Head of the unit responsible for health       systems and cross-border health care.
In 2013 he commented that McKee's       work had `been particularly influential ... His analysis has helped to       shape the debate on issues such as cross-border health care and the       emerging debate on a European health care policy ... and has been a       reference point during legislative processes including the adoption of       directive 2011/24/EU'.
5.4 Bernard Merkel, former head of the       Commission's health strategy and health systems unit, responsible for the       proposals for the Directive, added that McKee's work had made an       `invaluable contribution' to providing answers to complex questions: `It       was regarded by policy-makers as an authoritative source and thus had a       significant influence both on the Commission's proposals as they evolved       and on the political process of consideration by the European Parliament       and the EU member states.
'5.5 Isabel de la Mata, Principal       Advisor to the Directorate-General for Health and Consumers of the       European Commission, stated that, `This work has been very important and       influential to help us to develop the initial proposal for a Directive ...       LSHTM work has always been a basic tool to support our actions.
'5.6       Throughout the impact assessment period, McKee held meetings with European       Commission staff every six months and maintained fortnightly contact.
Between 2008 and July 2013, McKee advised individual governments on       cross-border patient mobility, including those of Slovenia, Belgium,       Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain, Ireland and Austria &#8212; in most cases at       regular intervals.
Regional governments in Italy also sought his advice &#8212;       and a former EU health policy advisor for the Veneto Regional Government,       Ilaria Passarani, praised the fact that, `he successfully reached the very       difficult goal of bridging the gap between research and policy'.5.7       In the UK, McKee's work was used by stakeholders preparing submissions to       the consultation on the adoption of the Directive, including for the       Scottish government (2008)5.8 and the Northern Ireland       Assembly.
At UK and international level, McKee also communicated his findings to       health care stakeholders.
In January 2009, he gave a presentation at the       Royal College of Physicians (RCP) to an audience of RCP experts,       government representatives and UK and EU stakeholder organisations.
A       similar audience was reached by his editorial in the BMJ       (co-authored with Paul Belcher of the RCP) in July 2008.5.9       Belcher, in his role as senior EU advisor to the RCP and board member of       the European Public Health Alliance, commented that McKee's work had       proved `invaluable ...
Without this evidence base, our ability to       influence political developments in Brussels would have been greatly       weakened'.5.10     McKee and Legido-Quigley advised the General Medical Council on patient       mobility and the Directive throughout the impact assessment period,       feeding into the Council's thinking on ways to respond to concerns about       the mobility of medical professionals.
At international level, McKee       advised the European Union of Medical Specialists, a professional       organisation of EU doctors.
For the European Health Forum based in       Gastein, Austria, McKee presented insights into the effects of the       economic crisis on European health policy in May 2013.
EU countries have until 25 October 2013 to implement the Directive.
Its       full health benefits for the EU's citizens are just around the corner.
