     Since 2008, the research has had primary impact on the approach to       audience recognition,       development and engagement at the Tate Museum Group and the operations of       its family of       museums.
It has also had secondary impact on Government departments and       bodies engaged       with policy for regulation of culture (eg Department for Culture, Media       and Sport, The Arts Council)       and Action Based and `problem solving' research on AHRC modelling of       methodologies in the       Museum and Exhibition Community.
Based upon the research, a number of beneficial changes have resulted       within the Tate's       operational practices related to perceptions of audience.
These include:     (i) According to the former Curator of Tate On-line Collections (1), the       research directly influenced       the Tate's On-Line Strategy (2010-12) and the redesign of a more permeable       website, which       recognised the need for social media tools to be involved across the       organisation if Tate was to be       open and responsive to younger and diverse audiences.
(ii) Influencing key decision takers and modelling of conceptual       categories of audience to allow for       effective audience development.
The Head of Research at Tate has stated "Tate         Encounters has         had a considerable impact.
It revealed how we understood Government         policies on diversity, which         research methodologies to use about managing Tate's programme and         audience expectations" (2).
This was also recognised by the Director, Tate National (3), as       contributing to the organisation's       national audience strategy by highlighting the need for a new audience       typology beyond       Marketing's socio-economic categorisations and models of cultural deficit       in order to build new       audiences.
In September 2009, the research team was invited to present       their findings to the       Directors and Chief Curators of all four Tate museums.
(iii) The recognition by the Tate Trustees of the significance of       longitudinal social science research       to the future of the Museum.
The acknowledged impact and value of this       unprecedented form of       open critical discussion led to the project being invited to participate       in a series of working       seminars called for by the Tate Trustees to inform Tate's Audience       Development Strategy, 2012-15,       which included discussions with DCMS, the policy think-tank Demos, and the       consultancy group       Audiences London.
On request from Tate, a dedicated report was submitted       and published by Tate       and subsequently tabled and discussed by the Trustees in January 2012.
Following the Tate       Trustees discussion cross-departmental meetings were arranged to       disseminate, consider and       respond to the projects findings (3).
(iv) In Tate's Learning programmes the project's concept of       transvisuality was taken up by youth       programming in redefining the ways in which the National Collection of       British Art could be       accessed through the use of new media and made relevant to a diverse youth       audience (4).
(v) The involvement of Dr Walsh and other Heads of Sections at Tate       directly in the action       research project through to its conclusion in 2010, represented a major       departure from the Tate's       previous method of commissioning external short term consultancies.
Secondary impacts arising from the research project include:     (vi) The project team was invited by DCMS (2008) to present its emergent       findings to an invited       audience of senior policy makers and community leaders as part of their       `Black History Month'       programme.
The research findings featured in generating a debate which fed       into a reappraisal of       the Labour Government's minority targeting cultural policies as well as       European cultural diversity       policy.
(vii) In 2008, the project findings and implications for debates on       multiculturalism were presented in       a closed seminar attended by artists, academics and policy makers led by       Arts Council England.
The outcomes of this seminar reviewing the status of cultural difference       and policy were published       in a specially commissioned report by ACE/Third Text (5).
(viii) The Mayor of London's Cultural Advisor and the Chair of the       National Museum Directors'       Conference Diversity Strategy, took part in a public programme at Tate       Britain (2009) which has       directly influenced museum professionals and practitioners responsible for       audience development       in Britain and Europe.
For example, the Museums and Libraries Association       project, funded by the       European Commission, invited the Tate Encounters project team to present a       keynote paper at an       international conference on the future of cultural diversity policy and       programming organised by the       V&amp;A and Leicester University in March 2010 (6).
(ix) The research approaches employed in Tate Encounters project have       been       recognised by the AHRC as a particularly appropriate methodology for       achieving impact in the arts       and humanities.
and was selected by the AHRC as a case study of best       practice.
The project was       shortlisted for `Research Project of the Year' in the 2008 THE Awards in       recognition of its       innovative modelling (7).
The Tate's recognition of the success of the       approach adopted in the Tate       Encounters project persuaded them to collaborate with LSBU on two on-going       pieces of action       research (both funded by the AHRC (8)) in the field of audience       development; one in Marketing       with a further project in Tate Media.
