     Impact of use of the PCI is interim and emerging.
However, it is       increasingly being used across a       variety of different clinical settings, conditions and countries.
For       example, the PCI has been       adopted for use in the formulation of the PCI-neuro-oncology (the       Edinburgh Centre for Neuro-Oncology)       PCI-breast cancer (the Cancer Research UK Centre and St James's Institute       of       Oncology, Leeds), PCI-Rheumatology (University of Liverpool), PCI-elderly       medicine (NHS Hull       Clinical Commissioning Group), PCI-stroke (AUH) and international clinical       colleagues (more       detail given later in this section).
Also the substantive nature of       on-going studies currently being       undertaken and forging of new research partnerships means full impact will       come to fruition over       the next few years.
Nevertheless there are a number of impacts that can be       claimed between 1       January 2008 and 31st July 2013.
These are:     Claim 1: PCI improves patients' experience of their H&amp;N clinic         consultations     The PCI supports the concept of personalised healthcare and follow-up at       a time in the cancer       journey which is most appropriate to the individual and within the       financial constraints of the NHS       (evidence of this was presented at a BPOS conference &#8212; Documentary Source       1).
Also a pre and       post evaluation study5 concerning introduction of use of the       PCI in out-patient clinics showed that       it allows patients to bring their own agenda to consultations without       lengthening the consultation       time (Factual Statement 1 given by Chairperson of H&amp;N Support Group).
Clinic assessment is       also more holistic and allows a broader array of concerns to be raised       with the consultant.
For       example, two thirds of patients who have experienced use of the PCI state       that their consultation       was greatly enhanced when compared to the usual procedures adopted when       attending their out-patient       appointments.
Use of the PCI has also resulted in higher rates of       appropriate referrals to       other members of the multi-professional team for such things as emotional       and clinical psychology       support (Documentary Sources 1, 2, Factual Statement 1, and Ghazali's MD       findings).
The PCI has also been piloted in other continents giving further evidence       of impact concerning       improvements to patients' experiences.
For example, in Malaysia it has       been established that `the       majority of oral cancer patients found the PCI helpful in identifying       their concerns during       consultations, thus favourably indicating its future use of patient       management in routine clinical       care' (Documentary Source 2).
Endorsement of the PCI in contributing to       patients' experiences is       also demonstrated by the statement given by Macmillan in development of       the national E-HNA       Macmillan Cancer Support tool (Factual Statement 2).
The benefits of the PCI in engaging with patients and allowing their       concerns to be heard was       recognised by a national award, E-Health Insider EHI (the e-health       community) awards 2010       winner `Best use of IT in patient and citizen involvement in healthcare'       (Documentary Source 3).
In addition reach of the PCI is reflected in its development for iPad       application (MiPCI) (Cancer       Nursing Research and Practice NMAHP Research Unit, University of Stirling,       Scotland) and       touchscreen tablet (Macmillan CNS &#8212; Head and Neck Cancer, Cancer Services,       and Ulster       Hospital, Northern Ireland).
Finally the PCI has been a driver for       patient-relevant clinical research       in several aspects of care most notably the fear of recurrence.
For       example, the St Andrews'       research team have gained funding from the Innovation Research stream NHS       Fife to conduct       further investigations into use of the PCI.
The St Andrews team describe       how use of the PCI 'has       supported a substantial stream of clinical research based on intervention       to reduce undue       recurrence anxieties' (Factual Statement 3).
Claim 2: The PCI has impacted on development of quality indicators in         H&amp;N cancer services     The PCI has been included as a key quality indicator in the NHS national       mandatory audit of all       H&amp;N cancer units (Data for H&amp;N Oncologists).
The PCI was adopted       for the first time in 2012/13,       by the British Association of H&amp;N Oncologists (BAHNO), This network       represents all the H&amp;N       units in England and Wales.
The PCI is being used to show as evidence that       units are conducting       holistic needs assessments.
From 2013/14 onwards units will be required to       return summaries of       responses to the various PCI items to BAHNO (Documentary Source 4).
The       significance of these       auditing processes is demonstrated by the 2012 annual report that included       8272 patients across       30 Networks representing England and Wales (Health and Social Care       Information Centre,       National Head and Neck Cancer Audit 2013).
The potential that clinical       audits have to improve       patient experiences is described by the Healthcare Quality Improvement       Partnership (HQIP) when       outlining how audit data can be translated into quality improvements that       benefit patients and their       care.
Claim 3: The PCI has improved professional practice in H&amp;N         out-patient clinics     An area of care that the PCI has directly impacted is the provision of       holistic care in out-patient       clinical practice.
Much of the aforementioned research of Rogers       identifies that patients feel that       use of the PCI permits them to raise a wider range of issues than they may       have done in their       previous out-patients appointments1, 4, 5.
For example, using       touch screen format the PCI allows a       comprehensive list of patient concerns to be shared with the healthcare       team prior to them meeting       together.
The value the PCI has in providing a holistic patients' need       assessment and how this       can improve professional practice is substantiated by the British       Association of H&amp;N Oncology       Nurses (BAHNON) and the National Association of Laryngectomee Clubs.
These       associations       have endorsed the use of the PCI (Factual Statement 4).
A further area of       professional practice       to which the PCI contributes is the understanding and appreciation of       patients' perspectives.
Central to use of the PCI is that the patient voice is heard.
Patient       involvement in developing the       PCI and satisfaction with its subsequent use is illustrated by a recent       Radio Merseyside interview       (July 22nd, 2013) with Rogers and a H&amp;N cancer patient.
The       patient was asked about       development and effectiveness of the PCI when used at their out-patient       appointments.
Positive       comments predominated from the patient (http://www.patient-concerns-inventory.co.uk/PCI/Home.html)     In recognition of the patient-focused nature of the PCI and its value in       contributing to the provision       of out-patient care various H&amp;N clinical units abroad have adapted the       PCI for use in different       healthcare settings.
For example, the patient-focused nature of the PCI is       verified in Factual       Statement 5 given by the Director Head and Neck Surgery Department at the       Hospital do Cancer       AC Camargo, S&#227;o Paulo, Brazil.
The PCI has also been adapted for use in       the restorative dental       services, University of Florida USA and the Lawson Health Research       Institute, London, Canada.
The PCI is being used, for example, as an outcome measure in research       being conducted by the       Canadian team whereas in Brazil researchers are using the PCI to explore       patient expectations       of cancer care.
The PCI has also been translated into seven different       languages including       Chinese, Arabic, Urdu and French.
Finally the judgements of funders in awarding grants for further       investigations also is evidence of       the perceived significance that use of the PCI can make to improving       professional practice.
Grants       awarded by the various local and national funding bodies including the       British Association of Oral       and Maxillofacial Surgeons (BAOMS) demonstrate a degree of confidence in       the value use of the       PCI has in improving professional practice and also the grant capture       perhaps most notably in       elderly medicine where a grant of &#163;102K funds a current evaluation study.
These are some of       several grants that have been awarded to evaluate and further develop use       of the PCI in clinical       practice including the North Yorkshire and Humber Commissioning Support       Unit (Documentary       Source 5).
