     The four examples of impact cited concern contributions to the decision       by the UK government to       maintain the Class A status of ecstasy in 2009; the British Psychological       Society (BPS) submission       to a Department for Education (DfE) consultation in 2011; the media       debates concerning the       dangers of ecstasy; and the development of a drug misuse support service       on Merseyside since       2008.
All impacts occurred between January 2008 and July 2013.
At an open meeting of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD)       on Friday 19th       September 2008, the Council presented its recommendations regarding the       legal classification of       `ecstasy' (MDMA).
The preliminary findings presented cited 12 studies from       this research       programme.
The scientific basis for these recommendations came from a       meta-analysis of       empirical findings concerning the effects of ecstasy [Other Source 1],       conducted by the Peninsula       Technology Assessment Group of the Peninsula Medical School.
The published       systematic review       cited 11 studies from this programme of research overall [e.g.
Outputs 1,       3, 6, Section 3], with 8       of these citations having direct EHU authorship.
These studies emphasised       harms arising from       ecstasy use, and contributed to six of the meta-analyses reported.
These       findings were       incorporated into the ACMD report [Other Source 2] submitted to the Home       Office.
Despite the       overall ACMD recommendation for the legal status of ecstasy to be changed       to Class B, sufficient       evidence was presented concerning the dangers of the drug for the Home       Office to maintain its       Class A status, with the aim of minimising drug related harms to the       public.
In August 2011 the DfE launched a review of personal, social, health and       economics (PSHE)       education in schools [Other Source 3].
The BPS contribution to this       consultation cited 14 published       research studies in the substance misuse section of its submission,       including 3 studies from our       research highlighting the dangers to cognitive functioning and mood       stability arising from ecstasy       and cannabis use, respectively [see Outputs 2, 5, 8, Section 3].
These       citations helped to underpin       the BPS recommendation that consideration be given to making education       regarding the dangers       of substance misuse a compulsory element within PSHE education.
The BPS       consultation       submission was published on the society's web site [Other Source 4], and a       formal response was       published by the DfE in March 2013 [Other Source 5].
This response stated       that cited evidence       was being considered by Ofsted with the aim of revising PSHE teaching       practice.
The current       beneficiaries of this impact are the DfE and Ofsted policy makers, with       further benefits following       to the teachers developing and delivering the PHSE curriculum, and       ultimately the children they       teach.
The third impact area concerns contributions to the media debate       concerning the risks of the drug       ecstasy.
Two major contributions will be noted here.
The first occurred on       Friday 19th September       2008, when Murphy appeared on both BBC Breakfast television, and on the       Radio 4 Today       programme.
Both interviews involved `head to head' debate with Prof Colin       Blakemore, a former       Director of the Medical Research Council, and coincided with the open       meeting of the ACMD on       this topic described above [see also Other Sources 1 and 2].
The second       contribution occurred on       Thursday 27th September 2012 with Murphy's appearance on the Channel 4       programme `Drugs       Live- the Ecstasy Trial' where he faced Professor David Nutt (formerly       Chair of the ACMD) in a       discussion about the dangers of this drug.
This programme, broadcast in       two parts on successive       nights, averaged 1.6 million viewers and claimed 41% of the 16-34 year old       viewing audience       [Factual Statement 1].
Murphy's invitations to participate in these       debates arose, directly from his       record of research publication (Section 3 above), with his contributions       to these debates drawing       upon the findings of this research programme.
On these occasions there was       direct impact upon       the content of the public debate by virtue of Murphy's invitation, and       also upon the general public       who were beneficiaries of the specific information they received with       regard to the dangers       associated with ecstasy.
A post-broadcast survey by the production company       highlighted that       viewers had learned of the dangers of experimenting with ecstasy [Factual       Statement 1].
The       impact claimed here is distinct from claiming impact upon changes in the       behaviour of the general       public, which would be very difficult to link with one research programme.
The final example of impact arises from a report produced by the Centre       for Public Health at LJMU       in June 2007 into the perceptions held by young people on Merseyside aged       18 to 25 years of       their treatment needs for drug related problems [14].
Wareing was the lead       author for this report       which drew upon the findings published as part of this research programme       concerning ecstasy       users' beliefs regarding the risks and benefits of using the drug, and the       precautions they took       when using it [Output 7, Section 3].
The manager of the national addiction       charity Addaction for       Liverpool acknowledges the role of this report in the development of a       specialist service for 18 to       25 year olds, and has submitted a brief written statement to this effect.
In some cases this service       cares for clients under the age of 18 years.
Our research particularly       contributed to a publicity       campaign about the risks of ecstasy use, and also to the responses       Addaction counsellors were       able to make to individuals who approached them for help with ecstasy       related problems [Factual       Statement 2].
Statistical data from Addaction on service uptake within the       relevant age range       shows a marked increase throughout this assessment period, with client       numbers being 134 for       2008, 278 for 2009, 412 for 2010, 420 for 2011, and 433 for 2012 [Other       Source 7].
The       beneficiaries of this impact may be identified as both the staff and       clientele of Addaction on       Merseyside, as well as the broader population of ecstasy users who will       have been better informed       regarding the drug.
