     The underpinning research has led to the development of a novel test       anxiety       intervention in the period 2010-2012.
This intervention (referred to as       STEPS) was       developed in conjunction with the Assessment and Qualifications Alliance       (AQA),       the largest provider of GCSE and A level examinations in England.
It is a       multimodal       and IT-delivered 6 session intervention, designed for use with adolescent       students.
It is novel in two respects.
First, as a self-contained IT package       (accessed via CD       or intranet server), STEPS can be used as a personal self-help resource,       used with       small groups with a facilitator or be incorporated into the school       personal, social and       health curriculum for whole classes.
It does not, therefore, rely on a       specialist       practitioner for its delivery and is a highly cost efficient solution for       schools.
Second,       STEPS has been designed specifically for adolescent students.
The IT       platform is       fully interactive and includes didactic quiz-based instruction,       self-reflective exercises       and video diaries from adolescent students.
STEPS is the first       intervention for test       anxiety to incorporate these advances and has been trialled in 10 North       West       schools with 3225 students studying for their GCSE examinations.
The       outcome       study (which is currently under review) revealed it was successful in       reducing       worrisome cognitions and was considered beneficial by students and       teachers at       participating schools.
Details about STEPS can be found and confirmed via       AQA       (Other Sources 1 &amp; 2, Section 5) as well as practitioner-focused       articles we have       used to publicise our work (Other Sources 3 &amp; 4, Section 5).
Interviews with teachers at schools who have utilised STEPS in their       schools during       the 2012-13 academic year (Factual Statements 1 and 2) have explained how       STEPS has been used as a targeted approach with students who experienced a       great deal of exam-related anxiety (identified or self-referred) and/ or       were       underperforming in examinations against their predictions.
Students       reported that       they felt that STEPS was easy to use and had helped them cope with their       exam-related       anxieties more effectively.
Furthermore, having completed STEPS, those       students who had underperformed on previous examinations made improvements       in their grades.
Although teachers recognised that it was difficult to       establish what       improvements may have been solely due to STEPS, decisions had been taken       at       both schools to continue using STEPS.
Teachers commented:     "The process is a well-structured, time-effective, student-centric       approach to the       problem of exam stress.
I now have a go-to solution that I know materially       benefits       students who suffer from test anxiety."
(Factual Statement 1).
"Possibly more importantly, I asked all the students about the less       tangible benefits       of undertaking the course and it was clear that their overall quality of       life had been       greatly enhanced during what would normally be a highly stressful time."
(Factual       Statement 2).
