     The research underpinned the impact by detailing the addition of a new       species to the British flora       (C. salina) and the confirmation of a second population of a very       rare UK species (C. flava at       Malham).
In addition to the peer reviewed journal output (listed above)       dissemination of the       findings were also achieved by conference presentations commencing in 2004       and continuing       through to 2009.
Some of this conference work was to non-academic       audiences (Dean et al, 2004,       Other Source 4; Blackstock, 2008, Other Source 3; Dean and Ashton, 2009,       Other Source 5).
This       preliminary work, much ahead of the REF period has led to impact typically       across three areas in       the period 1 Jan 2008 to 31 July 2013.
Firstly the recognition of the significance of the species discovered and       hence their need for       suitable management to ensure sensitive conservation of the UK's rarest       plant species.
Hence       impact is manifest in management plans written by the site       managers.
Secondly the incorporation       of the findings into published floras.
Finally a combination of       the above two impacts is that it has       contributed to the `green tourism' within the area of the two       species as naturalists seek to see and       photograph the species.
Beneficiaries are the statutory national bodies       responsible for       conservation (Natural England, NE, and Scottish Natural Heritage, SNH)       plus voluntary       conservation bodies the National Trust (NT) and the National Trust for       Scotland (NTS).
Additional       beneficiaries include individuals with an interest in biodiversity and       areas surrounding the locations       as individuals visit.
Prior to the Blackstock and Ashton work, the Malham population was viewed       as little more than       a curiosity (Jermy et al, 1983, Other Source 6).
However, the significance       of finding true C. flava at       Malham Tarn National Nature Reserve was recognised by the NT, the owners       of the site, who       introduced sympathetic management accordingly, detailed in the most recent       management plan       (2010, Other Source 8) and written in agreement with NE.
This included `a       change of management       to carefully control grazing' (Factual Statement 1) and introduced an       annual count of the population       to identify long term changes in abundance and hence assess the       appropriateness of the       management.
The C. salina work took a similar route to impact.
The finding of       these sedge raised the       question of whether this was the only site where the species was found in       the UK.
This was partly       addressed by a `Citizen Science' appeal via the Edge Hill website.
This in       turn was picked up by       the BBC and featured on the front page on its news website in February       2007.
The discovery of the       new species was then featured in other news sources.
While many of the       routes to dissemination       predate the impact of the census return they raise awareness of the       finding and prepare the       ground for the impact within the census period, in the wider acceptance       and dissemination of the       work.
Two bodies were beneficiaries of the discovery: SNH, the government body       responsible for       conservation in Scotland and the NTS who own and manage the Kintail estate       on which the       species is found.
The presence of the species informed management plans       developed by NTS in       2008 in agreement with SNH and reduced grazing on the site (Other Source       9).
The initial academic work (Journal Articles 1 and 4) and attendant       dissemination of findings has       led to the wider impact within the census period.
For instance,       documentation of the Malham C.         flava population in Abbott (2005, Other Source 1) and Jermy et al,       (2007, Other Source 7) resulted       in the incorporation of the work into the third edition of the Flora         of GB (Stace, 2010, Other Source       11).
This text has been the standard reference work for the British Flora       since its first edition in       1991.
An outcome of these publications raising the profile of both of the       species is that they have       become a botanical attraction for visitors to the area interested in       wildlife (see Other Source 12).
Carex flava features on Field Studies Council courses at Malham       Tarn field centre `continues to       attract interest from both locals and from individuals who visit the area       from further afield' (Factual       Statement 1) and is regularly photographed (e.g.
Other Source 10).
C.         salina has been similarly       featured on botanical excursions and has also been photographed as       individuals seek to become       familiar with it and then seek it at additional sites.
Without the sedge taxonomy work at Edge Hill it is likely that the       population at Malham would       have continued to be viewed as a hybrid population (as in the second       edition of the BSBI sedge       handbook).
Without these changes, resulting from your work, this extremely       important population       of plants could have been seriously threatened with potential loss of an       important part of UK       biodiversity and a distinctly remote population of the species as a whole       (see Factual Statement 1).
Likewise the C salina population may have been misidentified and       the opportunity to observe a       new addition to the UK flora lost.
