     The impacts described in this case study were the result of much work by       many people (relatives,       survivors, campaigners, elected members, journalists and others) over a       long period.
Scraton's       work at Edge Hill between 1990 and 2003 made a key contribution.
The research by Scraton and colleagues at Edge Hill University indicated       that police       records/statements relating to the disaster had been altered and that this       had been part of a co-ordinated       strategy.
Following the publication of No Last Rights (Scraton et       al., 1995) the then       Labour Government announced a judicial scrutiny under Lord Justice       Stuart-Smith (published       1998) to consider questions of suppressed evidence and the altering of       police documentation.
Scraton gave evidence.
Stuart-Smith's findings were that `it would have       been better' had there       been no alterations and that it may have revealed an `error of judgement',       but stopped short of       stating that it amounted to unprofessional conduct.
The Judicial Scrutiny did not end the questioning of the official       construction and reconstruction of       the `truth' about Hillsborough.
The Hillsborough Family Support Group with       support from Scraton,       the Hillsborough Justice Campaign, and Merseyside MPs (notably Maria Eagle       who contacted       Scraton with regard to getting key South Yorkshire Police records released       and sent to House of       Commons library) continued to campaign for a disclosure of official       documentation on the disaster.
Scraton's book Hillsborough: The Truth was published in 1999.
In 2009, at the 20th anniversary of the disaster, Andy Burnham, Secretary       of State for Culture,       Media and Sport, announced the Government's intention to waive the 30-year       rule withholding       public records to enable disclosure of all documents relating to the       disaster.
(http://hillsborough.independent.gov.uk/report/Section-1/summary/).
The former Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport sums up the       impact of the research       thus:     It is impossible to overstate the importance of the work Professor       Scraton did in the 1990-2003       period.
Quite simply, the full horror and injustice of Hillsborough would never       have been revealed       were it not for his thoroughness and determination.
Phil Scraton turned over stones that others walked past.
His book "Hillsborough &#8212; The Truth" prompted me to call for full       disclosure on the 20th       Anniversary of the disaster.
The full implications of Professor Scraton's work will reverberate for       many years to come.
(Factual statement 1)     In the aftermath of the 20th Anniversary of the disaster, in       January 2010 the Home Secretary       announced the formation of the Hillsborough Independent Panel.
Scraton       (now at QUB) was       appointed as one of the members.
The Panel had the task of managing       disclosure, examining       documents and reporting on how they added to the public's understanding of       the disaster.
The       publication of the Panel's report in September 2012 (Other Source 1)       represented the culmination       of attempts by bereaved and survivor groups to view this material.
This is       of importance not only       because of the issues of `truth management' that have characterised the       aftermath of the disaster       but also because such limited evidence that has been belatedly released       has been `littered with       factual inaccuracies, contradictory statements, contestable assumptions       and ambiguous       identifications' (Scraton's (2007) Power, Conflict and Criminalisation,       Routledge).
The Panel       Report drew upon, and confirmed, Scraton's earlier findings in the       underpinning research of this       case study and reported in Hillsborough: The Truth.
In addition to the disclosure of documents and the formation of the       Panel, there are a number of       impacts (arising before end July 2013) that stem from the work of the       Panel and that have direct       lineage to the underpinning Hillsborough Project conducted at Edge Hill       University which revealed       serious issues of `truth management' in the aftermath of the disaster:     Political impact: the Panel Report fully endorsed the findings of       Scraton's research regarding the       truth about Hillsborough, confirming his findings that police       records/statements had been altered,       that this was part of a co-ordinated strategy and that other documents had       been altered or       suppressed, leading to a Prime Ministerial apology (Other Source 2).
The       apology addressed in       particular the issue of safety at the ground, the long fight of the       families and acknowledged that `It       was wrong&#8212;quite profoundly wrong&#8212;that the police changed the records of       what happened and       tried to blame the fans.
[...] Indeed, the new evidence with which we are       presented today makes       it clear, in my view, that these families have suffered a double       injustice: the injustice of the       appalling events&#8212;the failure of the state to protect their loved ones and       the indefensible wait to       get to the truth; and then the injustice of the denigration of the       deceased &#8212; that they were somehow       at fault for their own deaths.'
The underpinning research by Scraton and       colleagues at Edge Hill       University published in 1995 was first raised in the House of Commons by       Colin Pickthall MP       (Other Source 3).
Subsequently, in 2011 (Other Source 4) Andy Burnham MP       cited Scraton's 1999       book when identifying how the `lie [that] Liverpool fans were to blame'       was established.
Later, in       2012, Andy Burnham MP acknowledged Scraton's work as the key work       influencing the       Independent Panel's findings (Other Source 5).
Community impact: the work of Scraton and his personal commitment       to the struggle resulted in       a close relationship with the Hillsborough families resulting in him being       highly trusted by them (as       reported, Other Source 6).
As set out in the Panel's report, the newly       disclosed material has added       to and altered the public's understanding of the disaster, with impact on       families, survivors and the       wider community.
The underlying research at Edge Hill by Scraton and       colleagues is cited in the       media as the key influence for the Hillsborough Independent Panel (as       reported, Other Sources       7-8).
The work by Scraton and colleagues at Edge Hill is acknowledged by       the Chair of the       Independent Panel, The Right Rev.
James Jones, who commented in 2013, `I       accept only a few       invitations to speak about the work of the Hillsborough Independent Panel.
I choose the occasions       thoughtfully.
I am here today [at Edge Hill University] because this       University played an important       role in the Hillsborough narrative through the work pioneered by Professor       Phil Scraton who has       now moved to Queen's University Belfast.
Phil was a member of the Panel       and his knowledge and       research expertise were central to the Panel's work' (Other Source 9).
Legal impact: a significant early impact of the Panel's findings       was that all of the original inquest       verdicts of accidental death were quashed in the High Court in December       2012, with new inquests       ordered (Other Source 10).
A new police investigation into the deaths at       Hillsborough, led by the       former Chief Constable of Durham, is underway (Other Source 11).
Practice impact: in October 2012 the IPCC announced that it would       be launching an independent       investigation into police conduct in the aftermath of the Hillsborough       disaster (Other Source 12).
