     The following impacts were generated between January 2008 and July 2013,       each flowing from the provision of expert advice.
As noted in Section 2,       the decisions to appoint Parrish to these advisory roles &#8212; and the advice       then given &#8212; drew materially and distinctly upon the underpinning       research.
Impact 1 &#8212; Expert advice informs EU priority themes for the         implementation of Article 165:     In 2010 Parrish was appointed by European Commissioner Vassiliou to the       European Commission's Group of Independent European Sports Experts.
Ten       experts from Europe were appointed, with only two from the UK.
Parrish was       the only lawyer in the group.
The Group met with Commission officials       twice in Brussels and produced a report advising the Commission on the       general themes and specific priorities that should be contained in the       Commission's `Communication on Sport' (see Section 5, Other Sources 1).
The Communication set out the Commission's approach to implementing       Article 165 TFEU.
The recommendations made by the Group were accepted by       the Commission and formed the basis of the subsequent Communication on       Sport entitled: `Developing the European Dimension of Sport' (see Section       5, Other Sources 2).
Impact 2 &#8212; Expert advice informs EU sports legislation: Following       the Communication, the two legislative chambers of the EU, the Council of       the European Union and the European Parliament, adopted two Resolutions in       response to the Communication.
A Resolution is a legal instrument setting       out the legislature's jointly held views and intentions regarding the       overall merits of the policy and the performance of the specific tasks       contained in the Communication.
The Council adopted a Resolution `On a       European Union Work Plan for Sport for 2011-2014' (see Section 5, Other       Sources 3).
In the Resolution, the 27 Member States endorsed the priority       themes identified by the Group of Independent European Sports Experts and       "[w]elcome(d) the Commission's Communication on Developing the European       Dimension in Sport and the main fields of action within its thematic       chapters...".
Simultaneously, the European Parliament adopted its own       Resolution on the Communication (see Section 5, Other Sources 4).
The       Resolution endorsed many of the priority themes contained in the       Communication.
In preparation for its vote on the Resolution, the European       Parliament commissioned a Study on `The Lisbon Treaty and EU Sports       Policy' (see Section 5, Other Sources 5).
The study was co-authored by       Parrish and he presented its findings to the European Parliament (Culture       Committee), September 28th 2010, in Brussels.
On the role of the expert       group (impact 1) and the European Parliament study (impact 2), the       Commission stated: "while preparing this Communication, the Commission       consulted with a wide range of stakeholders to identify key themes to be       addressed at EU level, including consultations with Member States and key       sport stakeholders (EU Sport Forum, bilateral consultations), an online       consultation and an independent expert group.
It has also       taken account of the results of a study on "The Lisbon Treaty and           EU Sports Policy" commissioned by the European Parliament       (European Commission Communication on Sport, 18/01/11, p.2/3, emphasis       added.
See Section 5, Other Sources 2).
Impact 3 &#8212; Expert advice informs UK Parliament democratic debate and         enhances scrutiny of UK Governmental approach to EU sports policy:       The role of UK Parliamentary inquiries is to consider EU documents in       advance of decisions being taken on them in Brussels in order to influence       the UK Government's position and to hold it to account.
As a means of       influencing the UK Government's position on EU sports policy in       preparation for the Council's Resolution, the House of Lords launched an       inquiry into EU sports policy.
Parrish was appointed Special Advisor to       the House of Lords EU Select Committee (Sub-Committee G: EU Social and       Consumer Policies), Inquiry into Grassroots Sport and the EU (Nov 2010 &#8212; April 2011).
Meeting weekly in Westminster, Parrish briefied the Chairman       and the Committee members verbally and in writing, provided questions for       oral evidence sessions, read and assessed evidence, attended committee       meetings and drafted the final report (see Section 5, Other Sources 6).
The government responded to the report in April 2011 and the European       Commission officially responded in September 2011.
The report was debated       on the chamber floor in November 2011 and recorded in Hansard, with two       references to Parrish, in Vol.732, No.221, Thursday 10 November 2011 at       page 420-441.
In a factual statement, the Chairman of the Select Committee       wrote: "In your case, our committee's analyst and clerk were aware of your       research and its relevance to our enquiry through your publications       including Sports Law and Policy in the European Union and The         Sporting Exception in European Union Law and through your       participation in conferences and seminars".
She added: "Without your input       it would have been very difficult for our committee to understand enough       about the specificity of sport to be able to comment on written       submissions and witness statements on the subject"..."Other complex areas       dealt with in your academic research were how EU law affects the operation       of sport at all levels, from the grassroots to elite level, particularly       in relation to broadcasting rights and the rights of workers.
These books       also dealt with the question of whether the EU Treaty required an article       on sport as a means of resolving on-going problems, so the fit between       your research and our aims in pursuing the issue of sport and the EU was       excellent"... "I am pleased to report that the Government gave careful       consideration to our report and concurred with most of our       recommendations, thanking the Select Committee for making a timely       contribution to on-going debates"... "I am pleased to say that your input &#8212; written and oral &#8212; was of the highest order and greatly contributed to       the seriousness with which the report was read"... "At least one member of       the sub-committee had initially questioned whether the subject of       grassroots sport was a serious enough topic for the Committee to consider.
You should take much of the credit for changing that Member's view to the       point where he was prepared to explain its imporatnce to other doubting       peers" (see Section 5, Factual Statements 1).
Impact 4 &#8212; Expert advice informs the European Commission's post-Lisbon         approach to nationality discrimination in European sport: As part of       the post-Lisbon sports agenda, the Commission funded two studies into       nationality discrimination in sport.
The first concerned discrimination       against non-nationals in individual sporting competitions.
Parrish       co-authored the study as the high level EU sports law expert (see Section       5, Other Sources 7).
The study provided advice, inter alia, on the impact       of Article 165 TFEU on the ability of sports bodies to discriminate       against athletes on the grounds of their nationality.
This was a European       Commission priority project as outlined in its 2007 White Paper on Sport       (see Section 5, Other Sources 8).
The second study stemmed from a       commitment contained in the 2011 Communication on Sport, in which the       Commission committed itself to "assess the consequences of rules on       home-grown players in team sports in 2012" (See Section 5, Other Sources       2).
Parrish co-authored the study as the high level EU and sports law       expert.
The study was delivered to the Commission in December 2012 and was       published in August 2013 (see Section 5, Other Sources 9).
Parrish       delivered the findings of the study to the European Commission's Technical       Committee on Free Movement of Workers (11/04/2013).
The results of the       studies have informed Commission policy in this field and improved       dialogue between the Commission and sports stakeholders.
