     Coppock's original research has directly impacted children's workforce       development strategy in England, providing the intellectual and empirical       underpinning for the development of a one-day training course for       practitioners - Mad, Bad or Misunderstood?
Interactive Multimedia         Training for Professionals Working with Children and Young People in         Liverpool (MBM Training).
The impact began in Liverpool 2005,       extended to the North West region in 2008, nationally in England from       2009, and is ongoing.
In 2005, Coppock was approached by Corroborator 3 for permission to use       her original research `Mad, Bad or Misunderstood?'
as the basis of       a collaborative project to develop mental health awareness training for       children and young people's practitioners in Liverpool.
The intention was       to mainstream the core messages from her original research into the       practice arena - specifically, the need to challenge stereotyping and       pathologising practices with children and young people; to understand       children and young people's behaviours as a form of communicating their       distress; and to develop new skills of listening and responding to       children and young people in distress (Corroborator 3).
Coppock acted as a Consultant/Adviser for the project (along with       personnel from Liverpool Mental Health Awareness and Liverpool       CAMHS/Children's Services Partnership).
MBM Training launched in May 2006,       training 1,000 participants in its first year (Corroborator 1) and was       profiled in The Guardian (Tickle, 2007) and Young People Now       (Lloyd, 2007) featuring interviews with Coppock in 2007 on the challenges       of Every Child Matters vis-&#224;-vis children's workforce development       needs.
Both features highlighted the development of MBM Training as an       exemplar of good practice.
MBM Training draws directly on the theoretical framework, analysis and       practical insights from Coppock's original research (outlined in 2 above:       Corroborator 1).
Specifically, it encourages practitioners to develop       child-centred understandings of mental distress and place the needs of       children and young people at the centre of their service.
In particular,       they are asked to consider the popular assumptions that lead to       pathologising the challenging behaviour of children and young people as       `mad' or `bad'.
The training manual is available at: http://www.chimat.org.uk/tacklingstigma/liverpool     Facilitated workshops offer:            a holistic model of mental health, integrating sociological and         psychological perspectives       an understanding of children and young people's behaviour as a means         of communicating about deeper issues       an opportunity to develop strategies with children and young people to         achieve greater emotional literacy and resilience, self-esteem,         empowerment and life opportunities       the skills to develop a child-centred perspective, within the         framework of the Five Outcomes of Every Child Matters and the UN         Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Between January 2008 and July 2013, MBM Training has been co-ordinated       and managed through the Mental Health Promotion Project of Merseyside       Youth Association (MYA) (www.mya.org.uk/index.php?p=205).
The training is now commissioned by Liverpool Commissioning Group       (formerly Primary Care Trust) and forms a central strand of its workforce       development and early intervention in its mental health and emotional       wellbeing strategy (Corroborator 1).
MYA estimates that MBM Training has reached 4,000 practitioners since       2008 (Corroborator 3).
MYA Annual Reports (which include only programmes       delivered directly by MYA) indicate:     650 professionals trained in 2008-09       (http://www.mya.org.uk/userfiles/file/mya_annual_report_0809.pdf       Page 7)     659 professionals trained in 2009-10       (http://www.mya.org.uk/userfiles/file/mya_annual_report_0910.pdf       Page 13)     508 professionals trained in 2010-11       (http://www.mya.org.uk/userfiles/file/mya_annual_report_1011.pdf       Page 26)     388 professionals trained in 2011-12 (MYA Annual Report, 2011-12.
(Page       17)     A core philosophy and aim of MBM is that all those who work with children       and young people should have access to mental health awareness training.
This is rooted in Coppock's research finding that, when asked, children       and young people say they prefer to seek and receive support in the       ordinary, everyday contexts of their lives.
MBM's reach to professionals       and volunteers across a wide range of contexts is testament to its success       in meeting that core aim.
For example, the 317 professionals who completed       MBM Training via 18 courses delivered by MYA between 1 April 2012 and 31       March 2013 included social workers from both children's and adult       services, teachers and allied education practitioners (primary, secondary       and special needs), child health practitioners, CAMHS workers, Connexions       workers, youth workers, Children's Centre practitioners, housing officers,       volunteers and community football coaches (Corroborator 2).
MYA undertakes evaluation exercises for each cohort attending the       programme, providing a rich source of evidence on its positive impact on       the mental health awareness of participants and their attitudes towards       children and young people in distress.
Corroborator 2 comments: "Over the       past two years that I have been delivering MBM I have seen first-hand the       enjoyment, skill, knowledge and confidence of its participants grow.
It       seems to re-ignite a passion within to support, nurture and care for those       who need it - especially our young people".
Illustrative feedback from MBM participants (Corroborator 2) confirms       this observation.
Practitioners commented: "It has enhanced my awareness       that can be used in my job and cascaded down to team members"; "We need to       look at the child in context of their wider environment, not labelling";       "It has given me an understanding of looking at behaviours as a small part       of what may be a bigger problem".
Young people involved in the delivery of MBM commented: "As young people       we spend the majority of our time in school, surely it's there that things       should be recognised and picked up on.
MBM highlights this to those taking       part and shows how important it is to listen"; "I would like to think that       doing this means no other young person has the same experiences I had       during college".
Beyond Merseyside, MBM Training has received both       regional and national recognition as best practice.
For example, the North       West Centre of Excellence rolled out MBM Training throughout the region       via a `Train the Trainers' approach, with a print run of 33,000 MBM       Training Manuals and DVDs disseminated (Corroborators 1 and 3).
The       training has also been used in many of the national Department for       Education `Targeted Mental Health in Schools' (TaMHS) Programmes - including primary, secondary and special educational needs schools       (Corroborators 1 and 2)     MBM Training has also achieved national recognition as an important tool       in tackling stigma (Barham &amp; Smith, 2011; www.chimat.org.uk/tacklingstigma/liverpool).
The Child and Maternal Health Observatory (ChiMat) promotes MBM Training -       the manual is available to download directly from its Knowledge Hub       Resources Database       (www.chimat.org.uk/resource/item.aspx?RID=96510)       (795 downloads between January 2009 and 31 July 2013).
Demand for MBM Training continues to be strong and its core content       remains grounded in Coppock's research.
It has also influenced the       development of programmes such as: `Inside Out', a `follow-on' Level 4       accredited programme that builds on the themes of MBM Training; the `PEER       schools award', a quality award that begins with staff training based on       MBM with the aim of working towards achieving a whole school approach to       mental health; CAMHS master classes based on the core ideas from MBM       (Corroborator 2).
