     Background     Autism is a disorder of brain development that affects how a person       communicates with and relates to other people and how they make sense of       the world around them.
First described in the 1940s, it is recognised,       even at a very young age, in children who have persistent problems in       understanding and communication.
Sufferers often show fixed repetitive       behaviours and may experience social isolation and learning difficulties       (Source: NAS).
There is no known `cure'; however, preventative support       from specialist teams can enable sufferers to live relatively       independently as integrated members of society, with concomitant raised       self-esteem.
At the time of the research, services for adults with ASD were sporadic,       or sometimes non-existent.
Most struggled to find a clinic that could       assess them accurately; when diagnosed, they were often left floundering       without help.
Detailed health and social planning was impossible without       information on the prevalence of autism in adults.
Key actions and recommendations for central government     The group's crucial new population data gathered in the 2007 APMS study       advanced the government's knowledge and understanding of autism in adults.
In March 2010 the government published its strategy for adults with autism       in England, Fulfilling and rewarding lives (A).
The       strategy sets out the key actions and recommendations for central       government as well as for local authorities and the NHS, focusing on five       key areas: increasing awareness and understanding of autism; developing a       clear and consistent pathway for diagnosis; improving access to the       services and support people need to live independently; employment; and       enabling local partners to develop relevant services to meet identified       needs and priorities.
In June 2012, the group's research was cited throughout the National       Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance: Autism:         recognition, referral, diagnosis and management of adults on the autism         spectrum.
The guidance evaluates the diagnostic and treatment       evidence base needed to address the population prevalence and age profile,       and the group's findings on rates are reflected in terms of the magnitude       of the problem and the need for specialist diagnostic, training and       support services (B).
An official at the DoH says: "The central work on national prevalence       rates provides an accepted overall estimation, which should be the       starting point from which local areas can work to develop services and       support."
(C)     The chief executive of NHS Health and Social Care Information Centre       (HSCIC) says of the more inclusive 2011 study: "These estimates...offer a       new insight into the prevalence of autism among people with learning       disabilities.
This information will be of particular importance for those       who plan and provide services to support those with learning disabilities       or with autism."
(D)     Local authority service planning     In April 2011, the Department of Health provided all local authorities in       England with the means to assess their progress.
These assessments were       collated and published by Public Health England's Learning Disabilities       Observatory.
The report shows that of the 142 local authorities who       participated, at least two-thirds either had a plan in progress or had       achieved their goal in ten quality outcomes and service ambitions relating       to the key areas above.
(E)     The prevalence rates established by the group are used in an information       database called PANSI (Projecting Adults Needs and Service Information)       run by the Institute of Public Care.
This is used by local authority       planners and commissioners of social care in England to estimate the needs       of the local population of adults with ASD and the types of support they       commission from providers.
Leicestershire County Council has used the prevalence rates in       discussions with three Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) across the       region to design new initiatives and services for adults with autism,       including the appointment of two Team Seniors to support Social Care       Assessment and the Autism Information Hub.
In 2012 the Council appointed a       GP, on the recommendation of Brugha, who over the last 12 months has       delivered autism awareness across Leicestershire in the form of a Top Tips       booklet, training sessions, a conference and one-to-one discussions with       other GPs to equip them with the knowledge and skills to manage adults       with autism within Primary Care and make appropriate referrals for       diagnosis (F).
Public awareness and information     All the materials that the NAS, the leading charity in the UK for people       with autism and their families, have developed for public information and       awareness use the group's prevalence rate.
This is part of the core       messaging in all NAS campaigns and communications and reaches up to 50,000       people through the helpline, newsletters, policy reports, information       leaflets and training (G).
The press attention that the group's findings achieved served to quell       public fears of an `autism epidemic' that had begun in the US and spread       to the UK and beyond.
By providing a strong counter-argument to an       autism-MMR link, Brugha was able to provide some peace of mind to anxious       parents as well as prevent precious research funding from being diverted       to investigating unlikely environmental causes &#8212; mobile phones, processed       foods, new medicines and vaccinations &#8212; of what is now strongly believed       to be an inherited disorder (H).
Other impacts     Based on their findings, the group provided advice and assistance with     Based on their findings, the group provided advice and assistance with       training to psychiatrists in the diagnosis of ASD in adulthood through the       Irish College of Psychiatrists and the Royal College of Psychiatrists       Education and Training Centre (I).
Brugha has given invited       presentations on his research and on autism in the community at       influential US institutions: National Institute of Mental Health,       Maryland; Centre for Disease Control, Atlanta; and Johns Hopkins Medical       School, Baltimore.
In 2012 autism was added to the reporting process of The Lancet's Global       Burden of Disease Special Reports following Brugha's advice to data       analysts on how to interpret the limited available data on the       epidemiology of autism in adulthood around the world.
The published       findings in December clearly show that rates have been fairly constant       between 1990 and 2010 (J).
Brugha is a member of the government's Autism Programme Board, chaired by       Minister for Care and Support Norman Lamb, which is preparing a review of       progress on the strategy which the Secretary of State for Health Jeremy       Hunt is required to present to Parliament for debate in 2014.
