     The impact and regional / national reputation of Diamond's work can be       seen in a number of ways in addition to published work: for example,       conference presentations, invitations to present and being asked to act as       external advisor or critical friend/mentor.
The following illustrate his       standing with peers, practitioners and policy makers:            2009 - 2010 one of four HEI chairs acting as members of Expert Panel         for the National Audit Office's evaluation of the Coalfields         Regeneration Initiative       2009 - 2010 adviser to the Community Sector Coalition's Leadership         Training Programme       2010 &#8212; major contributor to CLPS blog on the VCS/Big Society and now         invited to contribute to other VCS led blogs (estimated traffic to the         blog between 2010 - 2012 over 10,000 visits (Other Source (OS) 1).
2010 &#8212; present: facilitator to the North West VCS senior leadership         group (invitation only)       2010 &#8212; present: facilitator / critical friend to North West Regional         Youth Work Unit       2011 &#8212; appointed co-editor Teaching Public Administration         (Sage)       2012 &#8212; present: external facilitator for VCS Leadership and Learning         Development Programme in Lancashire supported through the Transforming         Local Infrastructure initiative       2013 &#8212; present: commissioned by an urban metropolitan authority to         provide leadership and professional development for over 40 community         residents as part of a deliberate strategy to involve local people         working with public services and to work with senior managers and         leaders to reflect on the practice implications of such innovation       2013 &#8212; invited to facilitate the VSSN Annual Research Day (Manchester,         28 November).
Impact 1a: Influencing the actions of key VCS regional leaders in         times of austerity 2008 &#8212; present     Diamond was asked by the North West Regional Lead for the VCS to act as a       facilitator for a series of themed (invitation only) discussion groups       after the 2010 General Election.
Over 45 people participated during which       a number of key strategic and policy questions and options for the Sector       were examined.
These included: the consequences of the Comprehensive       Spending Review in the autumn of 2010; the implications of the Big Society       initiative; the closures within the sector and the political options as       the preparation for the 2015 General Election were underway.
Diamond's use       of a participatory approach to the process during the negotiations for the       event provided a clear and systematic framework for a critical reflection       by the participants on the changing political context and its implications       for them professionally and personally.
Specifically, the impact of his work on local, regional and national       civil society agencies and leaders can be evidenced in the following ways:       the regional lead for the VCS in the North West describes Diamond's work       thus: "This collaboration (between VSNW and Diamond) is, perhaps, better       illustrated in a series of invitation-only round table events VSNW and the       University have convened since 2010.
The economic crisis, the outcome of       the General Election and the impact of the spending cuts on the sector led       us to think about organising a series of structured events in which       leading members of the sector could meet to reflect on what the scale of       the changes were...These roundtable events have played an important part       in my (and our) critical reflection on the strategic objectives of the       sector in a real time of change and where we have been able to draw on the       skills of someone who...understands our needs."
(FS 1; additional material       FS 4).
Impact 2: Setting up, organising, convening and leading a Leadership         and Development Group for managers in the VCS across the North West         (2010 &#8212; present)     Diamond seeks to make connections between his research and his analysis       of the nature of how professional power is constructed and enacted in       practice and the experiential learning and analysis undertaken by       professionals and practitioners themselves.
These relationships are,       often, contested and demonstrate sites of conflict within professional       agencies and between different professional agencies.
His work in setting       up a Leadership Group in 2012, funded partly through the TLI, with       managers and practitioners in Lancashire and from across the North West       provided an opportunity for personal and professional learning and       development.
His approach was, also, to place their work in the context of       their organisations so that there were explicit attempts to link their       personal learning with the changing needs of their agencies.
The agencies       included county-wide infrastructure organisations, domestic violence       services, equality &amp; diversity agencies, networks to support social       enterprises, trustees and management committee members (FS 1).
Impact 3: Impact on the development of services for children and young         people     In 2011 and 2012 Diamond was asked by the North West Regional Youth Work       Unit (NWRYWU) to facilitate a day's reflection for senior managers       following the Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR) and to participate in       the NWRRYWU's regional parliament for young people on the theme of the       cuts and austerity.
An indicator of his reputation and credibility is       reflected in his being asked to provide a summing up of the day for       participants.
These invitations followed his involvement in 2006 with the       writing of "Words Matter: A Glossary for Practitioners" which he undertook       in cooperation with a group of senior practitioners from across the North       West.
These relationships, which led to publications referenced above and       informed practice, were only possible because of the levels of trust and       confidence he had established with these professional networks.
The NWRYWU       noted "(we) drew on John's experience and understanding of what it meant       to work `in partnership' with different professional bodies who had little       or no understanding of the needs of young people.
It is difficult,       perhaps, to recognise the dramatic changes in the way services for       children and young people were being organised nearly a decade ago....In       our work with John we were able to develop a clearer sense of how to frame       our conversations with other key agencies and there is no doubt that       members of our network gained from their involvement too."
(FS 2).
Impact 4: Working with one of the London Community Empowerment         Networks (2003-08)     As his work with one of the London Community Empowerment Networks       confirms, working with different professional groups as well as users and       residents requires broad conceptual as well as people-based skills (his       participation in the work in Lewisham directly followed a seminar at South       Bank University where he drew on his 2001 research findings).
The CEN lead       has noted that "During his work with us he was asked to run a number of       day events for practitioners across the Authority.
These were successful       and in them he focussed on engaging with participants to think about and       to reflect on the values, aims and practice of community work.
I would       estimate that about 65 participants from across Lewisham took part in       these sessions [...] We drew on his skills as an academic, a researcher       and someone who was able to cut across the different professional       boundaries between university and practice."
(FS 3).
The programme was       organised as a way of enhancing the skills and capacities of both       professionals and residents who were involved in some aspects of community       development practice.
The same lead observed, "As part of the formal LCN       evaluation he made a number of specific recommendations.
These included a       much more explicit approach towards equality and diversity which led,       amongst other things, to the creation of an Equalities Officer post within       the LCN."
Impact 5: Acting as a critical friend to senior policy makers (2012         and on-going)     Since autumn 2012, Diamond supported one of the senior policy leads in       one of the North West's former police authorities.
His work here which was       asked for on the basis of reputation confirms his ability to work       sensitively with colleagues in highly politically sensitive roles as well       as his knowledge of and insights into the organisational and political       context to the reforms introduced.
He has the ability to develop       confidence in him by those he works with and to work through difficult       (sometimes on a personal basis) professional and organisationally       challenging questions.
The officer concerned acknowledges Diamond's role       in "coaching and mentoring to me as a member of the Senior Management Team       on: finding a new coping mechanism for significant change; a sounding       board and reality check...; an exploration of the new operating context;       understanding the change management process including readiness       assessments; communication implication and planning; tackling resistance       to change and confidence building, assertiveness and personal       development."
(FS 5).
The opportunities for learning and for professional (and personal)       development in such settings requires skilled and informed facilitation.
Diamond's work with practitioners and professionals in a number of       different contexts (from workshops to day schools) illustrate the level of       confidence in his work by the practitioner communities/networks.
His       appointment in 2011 as joint editor of Teaching Public Administration       (TPA) is further evidence of the recognition of his work with       practitioners and professionals.
Impact 6: Improving VCS Leaders and Practitioners' understanding of         the Big Society and its implications of the changing political context     The impact (especially in the North West) of his work can be seen in how       it has enabled leaders and practitioners to make sense of the changed (and       changing) relationships of the VCS to other public sector agencies and       organisations; the changing political context and the restructuring of the       market, state and role of civil society.
His contribution is, also, about       how to learn more systematically from these changes and so anticipate       future developments and (where possible) influence the professional and       practice informed discussions and reflections.
Through his work with TPA,       the blogs he contributes to, the national and international networks he is       part of and the work he is engaged with to promote a more systematic       approach to learning, Diamond makes connections between the local, the       national and international.
The blog Diamond contributed to during 2010 - 2012 was seen as significant by a number of professionals and       practitioners in the VCS.
(As one senior officer has noted: "His analysis       of the Cameron concept of the Big Society just after the 2010 Election was       very valuable.
There were not that many academics writing about it in the       way he did (critical of the idea but able to explain it to a wide and       diverse audience) and which also spoke to the voluntary sector [...] His       work represents an important resource for us" (FS 4)).
In the autumn of       2010 he was one of 28 people invited to an invitation only event of       opinion formers (including national press columnists) hosted by the Joseph       Rowntree Foundation (OS 2).
Diamond was the only academic and the       invitation came because of his blog.
The purpose of the event was to       provide the JRF's Chief Executive and her senior policy team with an       analysis of the likely impact of the Cameron concept of the Big Society.
JRF were then going to convene a panel of academics for a similar       discussion.
