     Impact flows primarily from direct engagement with community, victims'       and human rights NGOs       involved with influencing policy/practice for post-conflict truth recovery       in Northern Ireland (NI)       Evidenced in key testimonies from representatives of stakeholder groups       and bodies (as detailed       below) the research on grassroots approaches to truth recovery, promoting       victims' and survivors'       concerns, attitudinal surveys and international models and comparisons on       the effect of counter-       terror policies and practices has informed understanding and had an effect       on the activity, attitude,       awareness and capacities of these individuals, organisations and       constituencies.
a) The on-going impact of the ACP (1998-2002), first evident (and       continuing post-2008) within       the Ardoyne community and amongst victims' relatives more widely, is       rooted in its participatory       action approach (involving community members as co-researchers and over       300 victims' relatives       in co-generative dialogue).
The project and outputs (References 4, 5, 6)       affected then, and       continue to inform, the awareness, behaviour and capacity of       victims'/human rights organisations       in collaborative approaches to truth recovery.
This work is used by different individuals and groups in the legal and       human rights sector.
A       Partner of Kevin R. Winters &amp; Co.
Solicitor Advocates       (the largest criminal law practice on the       island of Ireland, based in Belfast, and involved in some of the most high       profile post-conflict       human rights cases) writes `by virtue of the pioneering work of the ACP we       have had recourse       and requirement to engage Professor McGovern both on a factual basis, and       also on a       collaborative basis' on certain cases and that `the on-going research       undertaken by Professor       McGovern is crucial given the intricate tapestry that the web of collusion       presents' and the role of       such `creditable research cannot be overstated' (Factual Statement (FS)       5).
The Deputy Director of the Committee on the Administration of         Justice (the leading civil       liberties organisation in NI, sister organisation to Liberty,       affiliated to the International Federation       of Human Rights and winner of international human rights prizes) notes       `Professor McGovern's       research, and in particular the ACP and the project Collusion,         state violence and victims'         perspectives in Mid-Ulster, has had a significant impact in       informing, shaping and allowing the       dissemination of CAJ's work to broader audiences, as well as influencing       debates and attitudes       on same'.
Further, the `work into collusion and covert policing also       substantively influenced our       decision to research the contemporary framework and accountability gap in       relation to covert       policing, which resulted in our landmark The Policing You Don't See       report (2012)' (FS 1, Other       Source (OS) 3).
b) Conducted for the CRCNI (the key statutory body promoting       community reconciliation) the       follow-up project assessed community-based truth recovery and produced a       report (5) and       additional outputs (References 1, 2, 3, 6) that continue, post-2008, to be       employed by NGOs to       inform attitudes, awareness and activities in truth-seeking policy       debates.
References 1 and 5 are cited in the report of the Consultative Group         on Dealing with the Past       (2010), an Independent Consultation Group established by the British       Government to report and       advise on policy and practice in dealing with the past that reported to       the Secretary of State for       Northern Ireland.
Reference 4 is cited as one of the Group's `research       materials' (OS 2).
Outputs are also available as materials for truth recovery projects: i.e.
Healing Through         Remembering: Everyday Objects Transformed by Conflict Project, 2011       (HTR is a leading cross-       community civil society initiative).
The `Everyday Objects' Project was a       recent (2011-2012) arts-       based project designed to encourage truth recovery and cross-community       reconciliation.
The       `resources page of the project website provides `resources that may be of       use for individuals and       communities who wish to further explore resources which deal with the       past' and makes directly       available References 1, 5 and 6 (OS 5).
c) The attitudinal survey (2004-2006) of views on a truth       commission for Northern Ireland was       part of the Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey (NILT), the most       important NI-wide social       attitude survey.
A range of dissemination activities contributed to       debates on truth recovery       mechanisms, including the production of a widely distributed NILT research       update       (http://www.ark.ac.uk/publications/updates/update46.pdf).
This work continues post-2008 to       inform the on-going work, policies and practices of relevant NI-NGOs.
A Former Commissioner of the Northern Ireland Commission for         Victims and Survivors (the       statutory body responsible for meeting the needs and informing policy for       conflict-related victims       in NI) states the research `has played a key role in framing the debate       and shaping the       development of mechanisms for dealing with the past in Northern Ireland       for over a decade [the]       work on community-based/bottom up approaches to truth recovery has had       significant impact on       the transitional justice landscape in the north of Ireland [and has] had a       direct impact on the       development of policy and the prioritisation of public resources to       support victims and survivors.
In dealing with the past... empathy with victims and survivors will,       perhaps, be the best way to       ensure that our tendency towards political rivalry, score-settling and       sectarianism will be tempered       by a wider spirit of compassion.
Mark McGovern's work is in that spirit'       (FS 3).
d) Collaboration with CAJ and RFJ resulted in co-hosting a       symposium (2009), comparing Irish       and Muslim experiences of counter-terrorism law and policy, and bringing       together relevant       representatives of human rights, victims and community organisations (i.e.
Islamic Human Rights         Commission (IHRC), Coiste, CagePrisoners).
Funded by       the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust       (&#163;9k) the work of the symposium was rooted in the ethos of grassroots       truth recovery and earlier       research and engagement.
A published report (2010) was disseminated via       the websites of       several organisations (i.e.
CagePrisoners, IHRC, CAJ) and       of the leading London-based anti-       racist think tank, the Institute of Race Relations (IRR).
The       research on community-truth recovery       led to further collaboration with CAJ and an invitation as a plenary       speaker on comparing Irish and       Muslim experiences, to their 30th Anniversary Conference (June       2011).
This addressed a `mainly       non-academic audience' of human rights, community activists and legal       figures, including David       Anderson QC (Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation) (OS 2).
e) Alongside on-going contact and discussion with relevant groups,       the continued (and       broadening) relevance of this work has been reflected in recent       developments.
On-going       collaboration with IRR (stemming from the truth recovery work and the       symposium organised with       CAJ and RFJ) resulted in co-hosting a symposium (held in Tottenham, June       2012) comparing       Irish, Black and Muslim experiences of policing.
This involved speakers       from human rights and       victims' NGOs and legal figures from NI and their British-based Black,       Muslim and Traveller       community counterparts (i.e.
human rights lawyer Gareth Peirce).
The Executive Director of IRR (a leading London-based       anti-racist think tank, campaign group       and publisher of the journal Race and Class) writes `IRR first       contacted Professor McGovern after       reviewing his path-breaking report comparing the Irish and Muslim       experiences of counter-terror       policing, because it reflected the way the IRR works' and suggests that       previous research while       focussed on NI adopts `frameworks that always open out to the universal       application of lessons       learned [and] also provided analyses and frameworks which have enabled       organisations like ours       to understand the current political [situation].
It is impossible to       overstate his impact on our work       in the UK and Europe (which in turn impacts on the groups we work with)       [which] has been of       paramount importance in informing our analysis of policing and       counter-extremism.
His ability to       bridge the gap between the academy and the community is what makes his       work so particularly       valuable to us and those we work with' (FS 2).
f) The research on bottom-up truth recovery in NI led to an       invitation as a plenary speaker to a       conference (Towards truth, justice and a political solution in Sri         Lanka: what role will the         Commonwealth and its 2013 Summit in Colombo play?)
hosted by the       Commonwealth Advisory       Bureau in November 2012, designed to inform the policy and practice of the       Commonwealth for       Sri Lankan transitional justice initiatives.
The panel included Yasmin       Sooka (member, UN       Secretary-General's Panel of Experts on Sri Lanka, formerly member of the       Truth Commissions       of South Africa/Sierra Leone) Other participants included a member of the       2011 Commonwealth       Eminent Persons Group and international NGOs (including Amnesty       International).
The audience       included policymakers, commonwealth officials and the `London-based High       Commissioners, their       staff and senior staff from the Commonwealth Secretariat and Foundation'       (OS 4).
g) Debate on dealing with the past is on-going within NI.
Current       work (2009-ongoing) focusses       on collusion and includes a project, funded by the British Academy,       conducted in direct       collaboration with the victims' group Relatives for Justice.
This       research, examining       victims'/relatives' perspectives on collusion and existing truth recovery       mechanisms, produces       academic outputs and materials of direct benefit to human rights/victims'       organisations and legal       practitioners.
The Director of Relatives for Justice (a leading       Belfast-based victims/human rights       organisation with branches throughout NI) notes that over the past decade       RFJ `including many       of our members, has been privileged to work and partner with Professor       Mark McGovern around       a range of collaborative projects [and that] the work has had a beneficial       impact [by having] directly       empowered people to document their experiences whist equally contributing       to academic outputs       and outcomes that influence how we address legacy more broadly.
There can       be no doubt that       the work [...] has enhanced and has had added value to overall debate on       the past in the north of       Ireland...
Direct benefits can also be seen in the bereaved and injured       [ranging from] better family       and peer relationships, improved health and wellbeing, confidence,       participation and contribution       to transitional debates [this is] crucially important as the voice of       direct victims and survivors of the       conflict is heard and contributes towards shaping how we collectively as a       society agree       participatory structures and processes [for] post-conflict transformation.
[We] cannot over-       emphasise the importance and value of his work at all levels' (FS 4).
