     Ashley has actively disseminated the findings of the underpinning       research.
The findings and       their application have attracted significant coverage in the press and in       television and radio.
This       has included articles in The Guardian (for example, Other Source       1, Section 5), Independent       (Other Source 2, Section 5), Times Educational Supplement, Independent         on Sunday, Daily         Telegraph, Daily Mail, and features in BBC TV CBBC       Newsround, BBC World Service, BBC TV       North West Tonight, BBC Radio 4 (Today Programme) and BBC Radio Five Live.
He also       engaged in knowledge exchange directly with research users (schools,       choirs, music policy-makers),       as reflected below.
The following impacts arose between January 2008 and July 2013:     i.
Impact on national policy (Other Source 3).
The National       Curriculum requires all children       to sing up to the age of 14.
It has been widely reported in research for       many years that       boys cannot be motivated to sing in the lower forms of the secondary       school.
The reason       commonly given and promoted in popular media such as the Gareth Malone TV       series is       that boys think singing is "uncool".
This research has demonstrated that       "uncool" is more       a consequence of a lack of teachers' knowledge of adolescent voices.
In       2010 the DfE       and the DCSS jointly formulated a new National Music Plan and accepted the       findings of       the research, and published it as a case study in the National Music Plan,       recommending       that all UK secondary schools should adopt the research findings.
ii.
Impact on the professional practice of choir directors       (Factual Statement 1, Section Five).
The Association of British Choral Directors (ABCD) is the leading       professional association       for choral conductors in the UK and offers a broad portfolio of conductor       training.
ABCD       has recognized the problems in motivating young adolescent male singers       with a       consequent shortage of adult male singers.
ABCD is using the research       findings to       establish networks of teachers and conductors across its UK regions.
iii.
Direct impact in school classrooms (Other Source 4).
There       is a severe shortage of       classroom materials that teachers can draw on to communicate the research       findings to       students through their teaching.
The research produced filmed materials       for classroom       use available as a DVD or on-line through the project website.
The ability       to track the use       of these materials shows that they are being used in over 500 secondary       schools, mainly       in the UK but also globally including Australia and Kenya.
Requests to use       the material       continue to come in at the rate of about four per month four years after       the completion of       the research.
iv.
Direct impact on music hubs.
The National Music Plan requires       the setting up of music       hubs that offer extended singing opportunities to schools and community       groups in their       areas.
Hubs are required to have singing strategies.
When hubs have drawn       upon the       research findings, they have experienced considerable success in       addressing the absence       of young adolescent males.
A particularly strong example (Factual       Statement 2) is the       Cornwall music hub that employed the research directly, resulting in a 200       strong       adolescent boys' choir that performed at the Royal Albert Hall and in       front of HRH Prince       Charles on a visit to the county.
v. Direct impact on primary/secondary school partnerships and         transitions (Factual       Statement 3).
The National Singing Programme ("Sing Up") funded by the       previous Labour       government spent &#163;40m to promote singing in primary schools, but ignored       secondary       schools.
This policy was critiqued by the research (ref 6).
Drawing       directly on the research       findings, Bristol Cathedral Choirs School created a new boys' choir that       visits primary       schools in the area.
The result has been improved primary to secondary       continuity, the       popularization of singing for boys on entry to secondary school and the       recognition       amongst boys in the top class of primary school that singing is something       they might like       to continue at secondary school.
The school has commissioned professional       DVDs of its       work.
vi.
Impact on teacher development in specialist schools with         performing arts and music         specialism.
Even in schools where music and performing arts are       specialisms, boys are       significantly under-represented in singing and the expectations of the       National Curriculum       are not met.
In recognition of this, the Specialist Schools and Academies       Trust (SSAT)       commissioned regional staff development workshops in Coventry and London       to       familiarize lead teachers with the research findings.
vii.
Impact on singing provision outside schools.
There is a lack       of knowledge about how to       engage young adolescent boys in vocal music making within the community.
Boys are       significantly under-represented in community based choral work.
Sense of       Sound is a       national organization with offices in London and Liverpool offering vocal       and choral       opportunities to a wide range of individuals and community groups.
The       organization has       commissioned workshops based on the research findings in order to increase       its       effectiveness in working with adolescent boys.
viii.
Impact on singing provision inside and outside schools       (Factual Statement 4).
Wren Music       is an independent company based in Plymouth, facilitating community based       music making       in the county of Devon.
Wren Music has twice organized county wide events       significantly       employing the research findings in order to target young adolescent boys       and those who       work with them.
Youth vocal leaders have received training based on the       research       findings.
ix.
Impact on widening opportunities in schools with challenging         circumstances (Factual       Statement 5).
Choral singing is significantly more likely to take place in       independent       schools or schools with a strong musical tradition.
The research sought       specifically to       address the considerable challenge of engaging boys in schools located in       areas of       challenge.
Glenburn Sports College is situated in Skelmersdale,       Lancashire, an area of       high deprivation and social challenge.
Glenburn has engaged with the       research to start a       boys' cambiata singing group.
