     Much of the research was commissioned through competitive processes by       national bodies, providing direct access to policy makers through the       advisory groups and reporting processes.
The PHF/HEFCE funded project       distributed twice-yearly electronic briefings to 500 subscribers, and       involved consultative sessions with senior institutional leaders to ensure       the final messages were communicated effectively to this group.
Throughout       the assessment period Thomas delivered keynote addresses and interactive       sessions at national conferences and institutional events, using research       evidence, the conceptual model, examples of practice and student case       studies to engage staff in thinking about applying the learning.
These       invitations allowed Thomas to synthesise findings from across the studies       and maximise the impact on national and institutional policy and practice.
The following impacts arose between 2008 and July 2013.
Impact on national policy making: Recognition of the importance of           student engagement and belonging through learning and teaching to           improve student retention and success and that this is shaped by the           institutional culture and supported national policies and funding;           limited contribution of student financial support.
The       research evidence has been used directly to inform the work of HEFCE and       the Office for Fair Access, being extensively cited in the National       Strategy for Access and Student Support Interim report.
Paragraphs 73-77       draw on Bowes et al 2012 to identify importance of the institutional       culture and the contribution of national policies and funding.
Paragraphs       158-160 identify the limited impact of the National Scholarship Programme,       and the changes made to date in response to our research findings.
Paragraphs 181-184, 188, 189, 192, 195, 196 cite the importance of a sense       of belonging, and inclusive learning and teaching drawing on Thomas 2012.
Thomas was invited to each of the thematic roundtable discussions listed       in paragraph 220.
The research commissioned and published in 2013 will       inform the National Strategy due for publication in autumn 2013.
The Office for Fair Access (OFFA) used the research evidence in their       guidance for institutions about including retention and success in Access       Agreements: `You are free to design your own retention work... You will       want to build on what works best, taking into account the National Audit       Office and Public Accounts Committee reports on retention and HEFCE's       subsequent work with the Paul Hamlyn Foundation and Action on Access'       (OFFA, 2012, p19).
HEFCW has drawn on the research through: a conference (2010, Llandrindod       Wells); a publication (Thomas and Jamieson-Ball 2011) and guidance and       analysis of institutional Widening Access policies: include a focus on       `student learning, success and retention interventions which are       underpinned by robust data collection and analysis to improve performance       and deliver improvement' and embed programmes of continuous engagement,       rather than large-scale, `one-off' interventions' (see HEFCW, appendix B,       $17 and $19, p12, previously the emphasis had been on widening access       interventions, rather than on institutional change to support retention as       well as access).
The National Union of Students (NUS) promoted the research to Students       Unions (NUS 2011, Thomas in NUS 2010 and an extended article on the       website) about the contribution of proactive and structured personal       tutoring to improve engagement, belonging, retention and success.
The       research also informed the development of the NUS charters on personal       tutoring and academic support.
The findings have also been endorsed by       Universities UK (in Thomas 2012a) and the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA       2012).
Impact on institutions: Policy and practice.
Institutional       staff have directly engaged with the What works?
Student retention and         success research: Approximately 40 senior managers from UK HEIs       attended presentations about the research findings at the HEFCE Widening       Access and Participation Strategic Committee, the Action on Access Forum       and two lunchtime events organised for PVCs by the Paul Hamlyn Foundation.
500 people are members of the Retention and Success JISC mail list set up       as part of this project.
387 people have attended the two What Works?
conferences (2010 and 2012).
Feedback evidence collected by the Higher       Education Academy (HEA) to explore impact of the 2012 conference       demonstrate people's intentions to apply the learning to their own       practice and that of their institutions: 80% agreed that `As a consequence       of attending this event I intend to change my practice'; specifically,       participants signalled intentions to take a more strategic approach to       retention and success, engage senior managers in change and disseminate       implications for practice to colleagues.
Conferences and publications       demonstrate how institutions have applied the What works model to their       own practice: Programme briefing number 6 (Action on Access 2011)       identified 24 examples from institutions across the UK.
The Compendium of       Effective Practice (Andrews et al 2012) includes 31 examples from       institutions about the application of the model and the impact on       retention and success.
A second edition has been published with 50 further       examples from the UK and abroad (Andrews, Clark and Thomas 2013).
A Welsh       publication includes 15 examples from Wales (Thomas and Jamieson-Ball       2011).
At the final conference 70 institutions presented evidence from       projects influenced by the What works programme.
The Paul Hamlyn Foundation has provided additional funding for       institutions to participate in a Student retention and success change       programme, led by the HEA.
This programme is directly informed by Thomas       2012, and institutions are required to implement institutional level       changes and to work with three academic programmes to implement change       relating to induction, active learning and teaching or co-curricular       activities (personal tutoring or peer mentoring).
Thirty-two institutions       expressed an interest in participating in the change programme, which       works with institutions to implement the research findings.
16       institutions (from across the UK and spanning all mission groups) were       selected to participate in the Change Programme http://www.heacademy.ac.uk/resources/detail/change/SRS_12-13/SRS_info.
Each institution has agreed to participate fully in the evaluation,       providing institutional data, and has paid &#163;3,600.
Both demonstrate       commitment to change.
It is anticipated that 13 institutions will be       permitted to continue into the second and third year of the funded       programme.
Continuation is subject to institutional commitment to the       programme including well-developed and achievable plans in line with       Thomas 2012 findings, full-participation in the evaluation and attendance       at the events.
Thomas engages with academic members of staff and departments.
In January       2013 she provided the key input (report and address) into the STEM       Learning and Teaching Summit.
In December 2012 she facilitated a workshop       for 12 teaching staff in the discipline of the Built Environment.
In       November 2012 she contributed to a workshop organised by the Deans of       Health and attended by 30 academics and managers in health and social care       disciplines.
