     The following impacts arose between January 2008 and July 2013.
Impact Claim 1: Significant and substantial contribution to raising       awareness of child sexual       abuse in sport within the international community, particularly in       relation to the abuse of boys, and       especially to the development of a European agenda for the prevention of       sexual violence in sport       (Statements 2-4).
Sexual violence in sport is a developing research field; many countries       and sports organizations       have little or no awareness of this issue.
A key aspect of Hartill's       research has been the transfer       of knowledge to sports organizations faced with increasing responsibility       for youth welfare and the       prevention of sexual abuse but with little experience of this problem.
Hartill has made a particular       contribution in relation to male victims, who had been largely ignored in       the academic literature,       yet are particularly significant for many sport contexts (Hartill, 2009,       2013).
Hartill has presented his research to a range of audiences and through       different media within       Spain during 2012-13.
For example, in the wake of two high-profile cases       of sexual abuse in sport,       Hartill was invited by the President of the CSD (Miguel Cardenal) to       deliver the keynote       presentation, and prepare training materials, for a seminar of 68 sports       coaches and policy-makers       in Madrid on 26 June 2013.
Shortly after (July, 2013), the Grupo de Apoyo       a la Prevenci&#243;n del       Abuso Sexual en el Deporte or GAPAS(D) was established by Dr Martin (with       34 members       recruited), with Hartill acting as an advisor; the group has since begun       to develop materials to       support sports people.
In addition, immediately following the seminar, the       CSD announced they       were developing an education programme on the prevention of sexual abuse       in Spanish sport       (Statement 5).
Evidence of Hartill's impact on European policy agendas include his       invitation, in 2011, as one       of ten Scientific Advisors in a European Union funded project led by the       Deutsche Sportjugend       (DSJ or German Sport Youth) and supported by ENGSO Youth (European       Non-Governmental       Sports Organization).
The main output of this project was the publication       (November 2012) of a       catalogue of good practice: `Prevention of sexual and gender harassment       and abuse in sports:       Initiatives in Europe and beyond' (Statement 2).
Hartill was invited by       the DSJ to: act as lead       author and co-author for the introductory chapters and Conclusion; author       a chapter on evaluation       of child protection in sport (Hartill, 2012); and draft the project's       final recommendations.
This       catalogue, published in several languages, has been distributed by ENGSO       Youth through its       network of 41 countries and partner organizations throughout Europe and is       freely available to       download.
The catalogue was launched at a European conference: `Safer, better,       stronger: Prevention of       sexual harassment and abuse in sports' (attended by 106 participants       representing approximately       20 universities, over 40 international and national agencies and governing       bodies of sport, plus       the European Commission and the United Nations, as well as a range of       regional and local       representatives).
Hartill delivered several talks at the conference; his       previous work on the sexual       abuse of boys (e.g.
Hartill, 2009) was referenced three times in the       opening presentations by the       European Commission Director General for Education and Culture, ENGSO       Youth Chair and DSJ       Chair (Statement 2).
The projects' recommendations were subsequently submitted to the European       Commission in       Spring 2013 by DSJ.
The immediate effect has been the full recognition of       child sexual abuse and       sexual violence in sports by the European Commission within its action       planning processes       (Statements 2, 3).
As an initial indicator of the impact of this, Hartill       was invited by the Council of       Europe's Directorate of Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination to       participate in a specialist panel       debate `Protecting children and young people from violence and sexual       abuse within sport' at an       EPAS (Enlarged Partial Agreement on Sports) conference on the `Inclusion         and Protection of         Children in and through Sport' (Budapest, 7-8 October, 2013).
Several closing speeches by       Council of Europe officials on how the CoE would move forward on this       issue referred to Hartill's       contribution and directly to Hartill and Prescott's (2007) research (e.g.
Council of Europe, Director       ad interim of Human Rights and Antidiscrimination (Maria Ochoa-Llido); now       accessible on       YouTube (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w8Of9_zV-4M).
The Head of the Sport Unit of the European Commission (Yves Le Lostecque)       has       subsequently invited Hartill to provide a commentary (in relation to       gender-based violence in sport)       on the Council of the European Union's proposed `Work Plan on Sport' in       order to `define priorities       and concrete measures on this topic in the framework of Erasmus Plus       2014-2020' (personal       correspondence from Yves Le Lostecque).
On the basis of the work he presented at the pre-Olympic Congress on       Sport in Glasgow       (2012) and peer-reviewed publications, Hartill was invited to lead the UK       delivery of a European       Union project (DAPHNE III Programme) on the prevention of sexualised       violence in and through       sport.
This project, titled: `Sport respects your rights: Empowering young       Europeans in sport for a       culture of respect and integrity, against sexualised violence and gender       harassment' was       announced in 2012 by Sportunion Osterreich (Sport Union Austria).
The       project, focused on youth       empowerment strategies in sport, is intended to reach a minimum of 1200       young people (aged       16-22) across Europe during 2013-15.
Impact Claim 2: Enhanced the ability of the Rugby Football League       (RFL) to meet its national       obligations in relation to safeguarding children and established the first       longitudinal evaluation       which monitors the development of child protection and safeguarding in       sport (Statement 1).
Hartill was invited to sit on the Child Protection in Rugby League Working       Group in 2001 and       asked to monitor the development of child protection and safeguarding       practices.
The subsequent       reports led to further change in the policy and practices of the RFL and       enabled the organization       to meet its national obligations to safeguard young people's welfare.
The       research made the       following recommendations to the RFL:            Establish a dedicated funding stream for child protection;       Appoint a child protection `champion' and establish appropriate         organizational support;       Re-evaluate the implementation of the policy and general approach to         child protection,         especially at club level, in relation to:                 The introduction and presentation of the policy and procedures;         Seeking children's views and establishing a child-centred approach;         Establishing support mechanisms for clubs and especially Club           Welfare Officers;              Establish a formal evaluation for the implementation of the national         child         protection/safeguarding policy.
In response to the recommendations:            The RFL has established a dedicated Safeguarding Unit with a full-time         Safeguarding         Manager who champions safeguarding and provides support and training for         clubs;       The RFL provides free training for Club Welfare Officers and heavily         subsidised training         for other club personnel;       The RFL established an annual Safeguarding conference and monthly         newsletter,         published and distributed by email to all Club Welfare Officers;       The RFL lead officer for safeguarding regularly meets with children at         a range of clubs to         seek out their views and has committed to a youth empowerment project         (see below);       The RFL is the only state-funded national sport governing body to         engage in an         extensive, longitudinal programme of research into child protection in         sport and this         continues to date.
(Safeguarding Officer, Lead Safeguarding Officer).
The researcher-practitioner relationship established by Hartill through a       sustained       collaborative and critical engagement with the RFLs work in this area       resulted in changed thinking       among those responsible for welfare within the RFL, especially in its       position towards research       and transfer of knowledge outside the organization.
For example, the RFL       agreed to a more       extensive investigation into safeguarding in rugby league in 2010 and       Hartill was asked by the       Lead Safeguarding Officer to deliver his preliminary research findings to       the RFL's Annual       Safeguarding Conference (attended by the majority of its Club Welfare       Officers plus many       coaches).
Impact Claim 3: Facilitated the RFLs engagement with the       international sports and child welfare       community (Statement 1).
As a consequence of the collaborative relationship between EHU and the       RFL, and Hartill's       involvement in the German Sport Youth project (see above), the Lead       Safeguarding Manager       (Colette Eden) was invited to the Berlin conference (`Safer,         Better, Stronger: Prevention of sexual         harassment and abuse in sports') to present the RFL's welfare       prevention work, informed by       Hartill's research.
Hartill's work has enhanced the reputation of the       RFL's endeavours in child       protection and safeguarding, nationally and internationally, by supporting       and promoting the work       of the Safeguarding Unit and facilitating their engagement with wider and       more diverse       communities in Europe.
This has enabled the wider European sports       community to access the       knowledge and experience accumulated through the EHU-RFL collaboration       from both a       practitioner and research perspective (e.g.
Statement 4).
