     Renton's impact activity enhanced public understanding of the origins of       the Israel-Palestine conflict.
This was achieved by extending the range       and improving the quality of argument and evidence on this major issue in       public discourse.
He developed a variety of media and organisational       collaborations, engaged with public campaigns, and drew on synergies with       the international news cycle to engage local and international audiences       in order to maximise the reach and significance of impact.
The       beneficiaries of the impact consisted of those who commissioned and/or       collaborated with Renton, including press commissioning editors,       television producers, organisers in societies and campaign groups, and an       artist, and those who consumed and were affected by the end product of       these research-based collaborations.
In early 2010, Renton began a collaboration with the online political       magazine openDemocracy, (OD) with a piece `Forgotten Lessons:       Palestine and the British Empire' (19/3/10) published in the section openSecurity       (Other Source 1, Section 5), which drew on the article `Flawed       Foundations'.
It provided the readership with significant new       argumentation and evidence about the part played by the British Government       in the evolution of the Israel-Palestine conflict, with an emphasis on the       policy vacuum at the heart of the Mandate and their mistaken assumptions       about Zionism and the Palestinians.
3,897 people read the piece, which       became the fifth most viewed article in openSecurity since it       began publication (Other Source 2, Section 5).
The article led to a       sustained engagement with OD.
In 2010 and 2011, Renton published two       front-page articles, including one on WikiLeaks, and another on the       Palestinian campaign for statehood recognition at the United Nations       (21/9/11), which drew on Renton's research into how Zionists understood       and used the Balfour Declaration.
The Editor of OD has commented that       Renton's articles `gave a new kind of gravitas to what have remained key       openDemocracy debates', `complicate the discussion' and `add nuance to       readings of contemporary events and counter knee-jerk, one-dimensional       responses'.
With the two front-page articles in OD, Renton began a strategy of       writing journalism based on his research that tied in with prominent       stories in the international news, so as to maximise the impact on public       discourse.
To ensure the sustainability and development of his high- level       public engagement, Renton obtained specialist media training, funded by       his AHRC Fellowship.
Based on his research expertise, Renton was invited at the end of 2010 to       be on an expert panel for a documentary on the Palestinian leader Muhammed       Amin al-Husseini.
Following discussions with many individuals, the       production company chose only to feature Renton, who was viewed as       authoritative and balanced on this highly sensitive subject, and Professor       Gilbert Achcar (SOAS).
Drawing on his conclusions and approach in `Flawed       Foundations' and `The Age of Nationality', Renton discussed in the       programme the rationale for British involvement in Palestine, British       attitudes during the Mandate towards al-Husseini and the Palestinians and       Zionism, and challenges that faced the Palestinian Arab leadership.
Episode 8 of a series on `Nazi Collaborators', the programme was watched       by some 250,000 on its first viewing on the UK Yesterday Channel, which       the production company's Creative Director (Factual Statement 1, Section       5) states was `about 100,000 above slot average'.
The documentary has       since been sold to over thirty channels around the world.
The Creative       Director says that Renton's significant pre-recording discussions with the       Director regarding his research and the context `facilitated the scoping       of the programme', and his on-screen contribution was `useful and very       pertinent'.
`From our point of view', he remarks, the documentary `has       done a fantastic job in terms of correcting misunderstanding.
This episode       has been particularly well received, successful and popular in the United       States because it does not present any misconceptions.'
In addition to his media work, Renton used his research to enhance public       understanding of the conflict by engaging with an additional type of       beneficiary, a prominent artist, and producing an additional type of       impact: generating new ways of thinking that influence creative practice.
Renton acted as a consultant for the artist when the latter was invited to       contribute to a group show `Viewpoint' in Tel Aviv, Israel, from 27       October to 6 December 2012, for which he drew a map of Israel-Palestine.
Renton used the findings of his research on the conflict to explain its       historical political geography, which, according to the artist, provided       `a knowledge platform on which the map would be based.'
He states, `The       information that James Renton provided me with was of great use and       interest to me, it was clear, concise and insightful.
For a country with       such a complicated history, such historical knowledge was extremely       important to grasp the situation there from both sides of the wall.
Mr       Renton's historical insight provided a strong framework to build my       project around.'
(Factual Statement 4, Section 5).
In the month that the artist's exhibition opened, a public campaign was       launched that became a central focus of Renton's impact activity for the       rest of the REF census period: a five year international campaign for an       apology from the British Government for the Balfour Declaration, led by       the Palestinian Return Centre in London, an independent consultancy and       accredited United Nations NGO, specialising in the question of the       Palestinian refugees.
On 29 April 2013, following the news story that the Israeli Government       had asked the British Library to loan the original text of the Declaration       for public display, Renton published an op-ed article in the English web       edition of the leading Israeli daily newspaper, Ha'aretz       (Ha'aretz.com): `Should Britain Apologize for the Balfour Declaration?'
(Other Source 3, Section 5).
It was the only article in the Israeli media       to deal with the apology campaign, and opened a new debate.
Drawing on the       `Flawed Foundations' and `Age of Nationality' articles, Renton presented       new argumentation and evidence as to why the government should issue an       apology.
Instead of the popular critical view of the Declaration, which       holds that it represented Britain's collusion with statist political       Zionism, Renton argued that British miscalculation and propaganda led to       and exacerbated the conflict.
The article, and the sustained activity that followed, had two principal       impacts.
The first related to policy engagement: the article, and ensuing       activity, significantly raised the profile of the PRC campaign in the       Israeli and UK Jewish public sphere, and led directly to changes in that       campaign.
The second related to the enhancement of public understanding of       the origins of the conflict.
Due to the reputation and extensive       readership of Ha'aretz as an organ focused on Israeli politics,       the op-ed enabled Renton to have a significant impact on the international       public discourse about the conflict.
The article was read by at least 6,500 readers - `a substantial audience'       according to the opinion editor (Factual Statement 3, Section 5) - and was       in Ha'aretz.com's top ten op-eds for April and May 2013.
It fostered a       great deal of debate, with 82 comments, a high number for opinion pieces,       40 tweets and 166 Facebook recommendations.
The opinion editor described       the article as `a significant contribution to the debate about a key       historical event and its present-day consequences ... [with a] successful       performance in terms of reader numbers, social sharing and `buzz'.'
Such       was the interest in the article that Ha'aretz translated it into       Hebrew and published it in the opinion section of the print edition in       Israel on 20 May 2013, something that the newspaper only does with a small       proportion of online op-eds.
In the UK, Renton was invited by the campaign group Jews for Justice for       Palestinians (JJP) to give a talk based on his Ha'aretz article,       which took place in London on 25 June 2013.
The JJP talk in London       provoked significant reflection and debate after the event.
It was       attended by the PRC's Senior Researcher, who had read the Ha'aretz       article and was, as a result, interested in hearing Renton speak.
Regarding the impact of the article and the talk, the Senior Researcher       comments that Renton's work `consolidated our argument and strengthened       our own belief in our campaign'.
The talk, he says, `led us to refine our       argument ... [W]e now place more emphasis on the Mandate period ... in our       overall argument and our communications going forward.
...
The talk has       informed, corroborated and focused the thinking of the PRC campaign group,       and has certainly had an influence on a debate on policy/practice.'
(Factual Statement 2, Section 5).
The talk was also the subject of an       article by a columnist in The Jewish Chronicle on 8 July 2013       (Other Source 4, Section 5).
In addition to the JJP event and the impact that followed, Renton's Ha'aretz       article contributed to a collaboration with Al-Jazeera English television.
An Assistant Producer at the channel, who had read the Ha'aretz       piece, invited Renton, due to his expertise, to feature in a discussion       programme on Britain's contribution to the Israel-Palestine conflict,       `Al-Nakba: The Debate', broadcast in June 2013.
Renton contributed to the       shaping of the programme through lengthy discussion with the Associate       Producer prior to broadcast, in which he introduced the findings of his       articles `Flawed Foundations' and `The Age of Nationality'.
He appeared in       the programme alongside Professor Emeritus Avi Shlaim, University of       Oxford, and the former Director of the Middle East programme at Chatham       House, Professor Rosemary Hollis, City University.
In the televised       debate, he conveyed the arguments made in `Flawed Foundations' and `The       Age of Nationality'.
On Renton's impact on the programme, the Producer       (Other Source 2, Section 5) commented, `Dr Renton's contribution included       detailed, preliminary telephone discussions about the subject matter which       greatly informed the parameters of debate for the recording, and allowed       for insightful juxtaposition of varying perspectives between the three       guests.
During the recorded discussion, Dr Renton's analyses of British       motivations in Mandate Palestine provided both historical context and       political insight.
His contributions were complementary and expansive       additions to those of the other guests.'
The Associate Producer (Other       Source 2, Section 5) states that, `as a result of the diverse panel that       was invited to contribute', the programme received a significant level of       feedback from the audience, with, `rather uniquely', viewers `calling in       to say how much they enjoyed the programme and to comment on how       informative it was.'
Renton, she says, `put forward a well-balanced       argument which stimulated a lot of debate'.
