     Chandler's research enriches the intellectual life of the church and       provides informed historical context for those wanting to know more.
It is       read and used by church people across the traditions, as well as wider       general audiences interested in modern Church history in Britain, Western       and Eastern Europe and North America.
It (i) informs debate inside the church community and guides           outside commentators.
The Church press and other church       writers and commentators regularly respond to Chandler's research in print       and online publication.
Writers for nationally and internationally       circulated church press discuss and underline the value of his research.
They disseminate his findings to their readers some of whom have in turn       blogged, responded or cited him in their public engagements.
His research       is taken as an independent voice inside the community of church thinkers.
Notably, media groups used him and mediated his research knowledge on       Archbishop Fisher during the anniversary of the Queen's coronation in       2013.
Here Chandler explained the role of the Church in that event,       showing how the relationship between Church and State works, and provided       context on the Archbishop's precise role.
Further evidence of Chandler's influence and impact in debates within and       across denominations include his work on the Second Vatican Council.
Chandler's collaboration with Chichester Cathedral produced a new book, Observing         Vatican II for the Royal Historical Society and a conference in June       2013 that brought together 15 Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Baptists,       Reformed churches and Quakers to debate the projects outcomes.
Much of       this was chaired by the Bishop of Wakefield and Chairman of the Anglican       Centre in Rome, the Rt Revd Stephen Platten.
A number of those present       were representing ACTA (A Call to Action), a group within English       Catholicism pressing for the reform of the Church.
The meeting debated the       task of reforming the Church and reviewing its relationship with the       contemporary world.
The research has also (ii) informed public commemoration,       notably of internationally important figures whose lives blended moral       understanding with political action.
In 2008, Chandler's research proved       fundamental in shaping the fiftieth anniversary of Bishop Bell's death.
Here the public impact of his work combined local, national and       international dimensions simultaneously.
Chandler was responsible for       inviting international speakers to a public conference in Chichester which       combined the University, the Cathedral and the Diocese (60 delegates, 5       countries including bishops and leaders of independent foundations).
He       co-organised, with the Dean of Chichester, and inaugurated a series of six       cathedral lectures given by politicians, church leaders including Frank       Field MP, Sir Christopher Frayling (Chairman of Arts Council England at       the time), Dame Mary Tanner (a President of the World Council of Churches)       and theologians through the year (attended by public audiences of between       250 and 300 people).
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams,       commented on Chandler's inaugural lecture, `Andrew Chandler spoke with         great insight'.
Chandler also contributed to a study course marking       Bell's Anniversary and that was used in Cathedral study days.
In addition, he played a leading advisory role working with Lord Lloyd of       Berwick and Professor Emeritus Paul Foster (Chichester) in the exhibition       of Bell portraits in the House of Lords formally opened at a reception of       c. 80 senior politicians, peers, church leaders and public figures       (including Geoffrey Howe, John Hall (Dean of Westminster), Dr Rowan       Williams, and Bischof Jurgen Johannesdotter).
Chandler's account of Bell       is a point of public reference in commemoration and debate on the Bishop's       life, exemplified most recently in his extensive contribution to Radio 4's       Great Lives programme on Bell (2/4/13).
Peter Hitchens (the guest)       confirmed Chandler's `major part' in the programme.
In short, when Bell is       discussed in the public sphere Chandler's research is a framing and       informing vector.
His short popular publication on Bell (informed by       research listed above) was described by the Church Times as `just       what is needed'.
Chandler's knowledge of Anglo-German relations informed the 2009       anniversary of Adam von Trott's birth in Berlin (The initial concept of       this event arose from discussions between Director of Krzy&#380;owa memorial,       Annemarie Franke, and Director of The Evangelische Akademie, Ludwig       Melhorn in Berlin in 2008).
A conference of c.100 people at the Akademie       (Chandler, the only British speaker and the only one to talk about Trott's       relationship with Britain during the Third Reich) drew together members of       the public, family members, young volunteers from Germany and Poland,       politicians (e.g.
the State Secretary) and senior commentators for an       extended exploration of the legacies of resistance, a meeting which       culminated in a widely attended (and reported) public service in central       Berlin.
Forwertz, a documentary film company, worked closely with       Chandler for two educational films on Von Trott and Von Moltke: and we       understand that the latter film is screened as part of the training of       German military pastors.
Chandler's influence on the space where commemoration and ethics align       came again in 2009 when he instigated the only public commemoration in       Britain of the bicentennial of the birth of Abraham Lincoln, working in       collaboration with the Chapter at Westminster Abbey, the embassy of the       United States and supporters in Parliament and also leading members of the       American Lincoln Bicentennial Commission in Washington DC.
This event       became a significant affirmation of a progressive Anglo-American affinity,       beginning with a special choral evensong at the Abbey itself, a       wreath-laying ceremony at the Lincoln statute in Parliament Square, a       public lecture and debate in St Margaret's, Westminster (led by Lords       Hurd, Owen and Bingham and attended by c. 150 people).
In July 2012       Chandler was invited to join with Professor Sir Diarmaid McCulloch,       Oxford, Professor Eamon Duffy, Cambridge, and Dr Jeremy Morris, Cambridge,       to advise the Chapter on the role that historical research might play in       the future life and work of the Abbey.
