     Over the REF period Nanoforce has supported over 100 companies through       contract research and       provided key research expertise to enable the development of new materials       or improvement of       existing products.
As part of their remit to the LDA, it has also provided       business support to over       200 businesses in the London area.
Since 2008, staff working through       Nanoforce have generated       &#163;2,78m of income, which accounts to 17% of the MRI's total grant awards.
Research at Nanoforce has played a pivotal role in creation and       improvement of businesses (incl.
Sugru&#174;, Zelfo&#174; and BiotexTM).
It has       supported and contributed to over 100 academic papers.
Twenty-one people have worked for Nanoforce over the 8 years of its       existence, and many more in       other partnering companies as a result of their growth through interaction       with Nanoforce.
Through       their experience gained, Nanoforce researchers have progressed to other       research based jobs       such as Head of Research at AFC Energy, and Advanced Manufacturing       Engineer at Rolls Royce.
Over 55 PhD students have been trained at the facility and the company has       presented in over 60       national and international events.
It has participated in over 30       knowledge-based collaborations,       whilst providing vocational training to over 300 individuals.
Customers of Nanoforce include multi-nationals such as Dow Chemical,       General Electric, SABIC       Innovative Plastics, DSM, L'Oreal, Shell, Transitions Optical, Sibelco,       governmental agencies such       as Dstl, and a large number of SME's.
Nanoforce has also entered into a       number of exclusive       partnerships for technology exploitation with industry.
For example,       conductive polymer fibres for       smart textiles are developed in partnership with CNT producer Nanocyl S.A.       (Belgium), while in the       field of thermolelectrics a partnership agreement exist with European       Thermodynamics.
In the area       of high performance fibres, Nanoforce has recently become the preferred       research partner for       DSM Dyneema (Netherlands).
Dyneema is a world-leader in high strength       polymer fibres and they       have selected Nanoforce as their main research partner because of its       expertise in fibre       technology and its ability to conduct research in an industrial facing       environment under full       confidentiality.
Nanoforce has helped develop several products as well as       transferring knowledge       acquired from research.
Prime examples of these are the, Sugru&#174;,       Zelfo&#174;, BiotexTM and       Kennametal case studies discussed below.
Sugru&#174; : FormFormForm is a young and       vibrant SME based company in East London.
Its main       technology (Formarol) is a room temperature vulcanizing silicone rubber,       which is specially       formulated for handle-ability and cure kinetics.
Sugru&#174;,       the brain child of FormFormForm's CEO       Jane Ni Dhulchaointigh, is the first commercial product based on this       technology.
It resembles       modelling clay but sticks to almost anything and dries to a tough, rubbery       finish.
It allows single       users to personalise, fix and modifying objects, devises or goods.
Over       285,000 people in 138       countries are currently using it to make their stuff work better, or as       the company puts it, Sugru       `Hacks things better'.
In 2008, because of its expertise in polymers and       rubbers (Busfield, Peijs,       Bilotti), Nanoforce was asked to assist in the development of Sugru.
Supported by a TSB       Feasibility Award, Nanoforce helped to create the silicone material that       would be sticky but would       also cure at room temperature.
It provided advice on optimal processing       and production methods,       and the formulation of the current materials is a direct result of work       performed in the Nanoforce       labs.
In November 2009, with a minute budget, FormFormForm started to       produce a small batch of       products.
These first 1,000 packets of Sugru, which took a month to make,       sold out in six hours to       customers in 21 countries and where an instant hit.
In 2010 TIME Magazine       listed Sugru alongside       the iPad as one of the top 50 inventions of that year, and in 2012 Jane Ni       Dhulchaointigh won the       `London Design Entrepreneur Award'.
Currently Sugru is receiving massive       attention by different       medias, particularly social media, thus bypassing traditional routes to       market.
Nanoforce       involvement in the development of Sugru had direct economic impact through       increased sales and       jobs created with FormFormForm now employing 30 people.
It had sales of $1       million in 2011 and       doubled that figure in 2012.
It opened an office in America in 2011, the       firm's biggest single market.
Zelfo&#174; : Zelfo is a materials system that       is based entirely on nanofibrillated cellulose fibres, where       fibres mechanically interlock and self-bind via hydrogen bonding.
Hence,       no further additives or       resins are required to promote fibre bonding, resulting in a sustainable       and recyclable bio-based       alternative to ones using synthetic resin systems, such as wood fibre       plastic (WFP) or medium       density fibre board (MDF).
Zelfo was initially developed and patented by       Zellform GmbH (Austria)       in the 1990s.
However, it needed a collaborative R&amp;D program funded by       the DTI (REFLECT,       2007-2010), involving QMUL's Nanoforce, InterfaceFLOR, Omodo (the original       patent holders),       and other industrial partners to successfully industrialize the concept.
Within this collaborative       project, Peijs' his expertise in cellulose and nanocellulose [3-5], led to       optimized environmentally       friendly processing schemes for Zelfo panels.
Minimizing energy and       resources (water/fibre), up-       cycling of cellulose waste streams, and shrinkage of the material while       drying were issues that       were tackled.
Significant environmental impact was achieved through the       successful development of a       number of mixed fibre products which utilised cellulose waste and recycled       paper.
Dr. Luca Achilli, at       the time working at Nanoforce under the supervision of Peijs, moved in       2009 to InterfaceFLOR as       an Innovations Project Manager to further develop the product.
In 2011 Zelfo Technology GmbH       was created to commercialise the technology, and with a view to accelerate       industry take up an IP       technology transfer to BASF (Germany) took place in 2013, while in the       same year Interface Inc., a       world leader in sustainability, also acquired a shareholding of the       company.
In September 2012,       Zelfo Technology and House of Hemp (South Africa) formed a manufacturing       alliance to up-cycle       cellulose waste to produce binder-free, formaldehyde free, products for       the building industry in       South Africa.
The plant will produce a range of products to serve the       building market.
Zelfo has       been awarded a number of prestigious prizes.
In February 2011, Zelfo       Technology won two       prestigious `Rushlight Awards' for environmentally responsible products.
In March 2011 Zelfo was       voted `Biomaterial of the year 2011' by the Nova Institute.
In April 2012,       Niche Snowboards       (featuring Zelfo) was awarded the ISPO (leading sports business network in       Munich, Germany)       `Eco Snowsport Product of the year' for their freestyle snowboard models.
BiotexTM: Composites Evolution is a young SME       that since 2010 provides innovative, sustainable       materials to the composites industry.
The current Biotex       range now being commercialised by       Composites Evolution are a direct result of materials developed through       the DTI project COMBINE       (2007-2010), together with project partners like Netcomposites, Springdale       Natural Products, John L       Brierley, Sam Weller and Sons, and Tilsatec.
The Biotex family includes a       range of high-performance       natural reinforcement yarns, fabrics (woven and non-crimp) and       preconsolidated sheets suitable for       composite applications.
Standard grades include pure jute and flax       fabrics, flax/PP, and flax/PLA       commingled fabrics.
Compared to traditional natural fibre reinforced       plastics based on non-wovens       these materials provide improved performance, easy processing and weight       savings.
They are suitable       for semi-structural and decorative applications in sectors such as       automotive, construction, marine,       sports and consumer goods.
Biotex uses a unique Twistless Technology to       ensure a high degree of       fibre alignment, impregnation and performance, based on research insights       obtained by Peijs [4] in an       earlier EU FP5 TEXFLAX project (2001-2003).
Within the COMBINE project       Peijs and team were       responsible for developing optimized yarn and composite processing       technologies and property       evaluation.
The widespread use of these materials can have significant       environmental impact as these       materials can save weight, and are based on renewable resources.
The       research had direct economic       impact as Composites Evolution currently employs five fulltime employees.
Its turnover in 2012 was       &#163;150,000 and has doubled annually since its start in 2010, and is       projected to sustain this growth for       the coming 4-5 years, with the company moving into a new building within       the next year.
Automotive       parts based on Biotex are currently under evaluation by a whole range of       car manufacturers and have       been approved by Jaguar Land Rover for their next generation vehicles.
The       material has been       successfully introduced in the sports and leisure market including       snowboards by Canadian producer       Magine, skis and canoes, often       for its superior vibrational damping characteristics.
Other markets under       development are in furniture and consumer electronics such as laptop and       smartphone cases.
Kennametal Sintec : Nanoforce set up the first spark plasma       sintering (SPS) furnace in the UK in       2006 (Reece).
It has been promoting the development and commercialisation       of the SPS       technology by working with several companies in the fields of       thermoelectrics, ferroelectrics and       structural ceramics and composites.
Kennametal         Sintec Ltd in South Wales, have just opened the       first commercial SPS in the UK as an outcome of working with Nanoforce and       Dstl to establish a       UK on-shore capability to produce advanced ceramic armour.
It involves a       &#163;2m joint investment by       Kennametal and Dstl, and has already created one new job.
Nanoforce has assisted in the development of a wide range of         commercial products (from top left         to bottom right): Sugru&#174; a new self-setting         rubber for fixing, modifying and improving stuff; Panel         products made from Zelfo&#174; based on 100%         renewable or recycled cellulose fibres; BiotexTM       natural reinforcement yarns, fabrics, preconsolidated sheets and         Magine's snowboard; and SPS         technology for the development of Kennametal's ceramic armour.
