     Background     Attitudes to children and their mental health were moving from a       biological to a psychosocial       interpretation when the Institute was set up in 1993.
Long before       child-centred care was placed at       the core of the NHS, academics at Leicester recognised that closer       engagement with service       providers and practitioners could lead to better care, resource allocation       and psychological       outcomes.
The aim was to effectively translate academic theory and       research into policy practice.
Researchers, teachers and clinicians work alongside social workers,       nursery nurses, housing       officers, educators and youth/community workers.
The findings of the       studies reported in the case       study have informed organisations working with or on behalf of vulnerable       children, ranging from       central government (e.g.
DoH, DSS, DCSF) to local authorities       (Leicestershire Partnership NHS       Trust, Leicester City Educational Psychology Service) to the voluntary       sector (BAAF, ADHD       Solutions, Unicef).
Informing policy and practice     The philosophy of the Institute is to apply research and teaching to       policy requirements, services       and practice.
John Simmonds of BAAF says: "The respect that has developed       for the quality of this       work because it links a valid and reliable description of the issues with       a clear pathway for what       can be done to improve the situation of those studied, cannot be       overestimated."
(A).
Miranda Wolpert of the Anna Freud Centre says: "It [the Institute's       research] has made       practitioners more aware of the evidence-base that applies to marginalised       children and more able       to evaluate and adapt their work.
Every day I hear people talk about more       interactive work and       closer liaising with schoolchildren with mental health needs."
(B).
Outcomes of research projects     Looked-after children &#8212; The evidence from the Institute's studies       into looked-after and adopted       children (around 80,000 at any one time in the UK) has informed the       expansion of mental health       services through major policy initiatives such as the National Child and       Adolescent Mental Health       Services (CAMHS) Review in 2008 (C), where Vostanis was an Expert       Reviewer, and NICE       Guidelines for Looked After Children in 2010 (D).The research       provided the impetus to transform a       long-held concern about the mental health status of looked-after children       into a comprehensive       approach, with formal assessment of a child's mental health and subsequent       provision of       appropriate services.
This has resulted in closer working between local       authorities and CAMHS,       with CAMHS professionals being routinely integrated into looked-after       children's teams.
Research       informed guidelines were embedded in the Adoption and Children Act 2006       and subsequent       regulations in relation to adoption support.
Each year Dr Jeanette Bowlay-Williams, a clinical psychologist, uses the       Institute's research       findings to help around 30 adoptive parents and 60 foster carers to       understand their children's       behaviour through group training and to build a new level of acceptance.
She says: "There has       been a marked reduction in placement breakdown in recent years as a       result."
(E).
Young people in the criminal justice system &#8212; The research led to       a Cochrane Review in 2003 that       has been widely disseminated to Youth Offending Services and the Youth       Justice Board (F),       informing policy and service development, which is still in place in 2013.
Young offenders, who       number around 3,500 in the UK at any given time and who often experience       mood and anxiety       disorders and problems with self-harm, are now seen by mental health teams       and receive       assessment and intervention within two weeks of offending.
Homeless children and young people &#8212; The Institute's research into       young homeless peoples'       needs and how non-statutory and statutory services should be integrated to       meet these, have been       presented at national events hosted by the Department for Communities and       Local Government.
A       2010 report that acknowledges Vostanis' contribution has been disseminated       to local housing       departments and national organisations for homeless people (G).
A study establishing homeless families' perspectives on their health       needs and barriers to       accessing services has informed the 2012 consultation of the Leicester       Council and helped sustain       services (the family hostel at Border House, the Family Support Service       and Corner Club) for       homeless families in the current economic climate.
The findings have       informed the Standards of       the National Faculty for Homeless and Inclusion Health (2013; H).
The institute's Family Support       Service, staffed by a dedicated team of five, extends support to families       on leaving hostels to be       rehoused, and is regarded as a model of excellence and innovation.
In ten       years to 2013, more       than 2,500 children have been helped by this service.
Dr Bowlay-Williams       says: "The Institute's       research into homeless victims of domestic abuse and PTSD helped       psychologists working with       this vulnerable group to understand and have the confidence to undertake       symptom management,       which led to a reduction in intrusive images and flashbacks, and better       sleep patterns, and       therefore increased access to education."
School children in Pakistan &#8212; Under the supervision of the       Institute, Dr Sajida Hassan has set up       the Husseini Foundation in Karachi, Pakistan, which has developed a       training programme       (handbook for teachers and mothers, trainers' manual and research       evaluation tools) for early       intervention in the identification and school-based management of less       complex emotional and       behavioural problems.
Between April 2011 and June 2013, 400 teachers, 160       mothers and 3,500       children benefited (I).
The programme has now been set up elsewhere       in the country, with different       levels of courses for teachers, psychologists and parents.
Child victims of war in Gaza &#8212; The Institute's studies and       measurement tools have been used by       local and international NGOs, such as MSF and Save the Children, for       recruitment and training of       staff and specialists; for fundraising and advocacy in their home       countries; and for proposing       services and evaluating their work.
The Palestinian Ministry of Education       established counselling       units and trained teachers to recognise the symptoms of PTSD for referral.
Al-Quds' School of       Public Health's MSc in Community Mental Health has recently added Trauma       as a module.
Many       leaders in the Ministries of Health and Education are graduates of this       programme (J).
