     Context     The internationally renowned WDOAM (which opened in 1970) is one of the       leading museums of historic buildings and rural life in the UK, receiving       about 130-140,000 visitors a year (15,000 of whom are school children).
It       has a collection of nearly fifty historic buildings &#8212; domestic,       agricultural, industrial and commercial &#8212; dating from the late thirteenth       to the early twentieth centuries.
Many of the buildings have been       furnished to replicate historic domestic interiors and whilst the museum       was set up as a museum about buildings, over the last 20 years its       focus has shifted to reflect public interest in how men and women lived in       the past.
See further at: http://www.wealddown.co.uk/     Overview of impact     The impacts are:            For visitors: enhanced experience of the historic building, Poplar         Cottage (2011-2013) and inter-action with the Poplar Clothing Project         exhibition (May 2013);       For interpretation staff and volunteer guides at WDOAM: an increased         understanding and awareness of historical research underpinning public         presentation of `Poplar' and rural clothing;       For the WDOAM as an enterprise: enhanced visitor offering, enhanced         material for magazine, additional radio and online press coverage and         public interest arising from the Poplar Clothing Exhibition;       For the public at large: readers of the magazine, audiences for the         radio and online press coverage have had their awareness raised about         how archival historical research can enhance heritage exhibits and how         the museum's work is underpinned by rigorous scholarship.
For the interpretation department: the Poplar Clothing Project         exhibition has provided a blueprint for future clothing project         exhibitions.
Interpretation of furnishings at Poplar Cottage       The first impact was the reinterpretation of Poplar as a shoemaker's       cottage as it might have been c.1630, informed by Tankard's scholarly       publications, cited above.
In 2010 Tankard created an interpretation plan       for the cottage, detailing furnishings and domestic utensils and       shoemaker's tools and outlining the `story' that would underpin its       presentation.
Between 2010 and 2011 she worked with colleagues at the       museum and specialist craftsmen and women to furnish the cottage.
Information about the reinterpretation was disseminated through training       sessions for volunteer house stewards (in 2012 and 2013), through a       visitor information folder inside the exhibit building and by means of an       article (`Interpreting Poplar Cottage') published in the museum's magazine       in autumn 2011 (direct print circulation of 11,000; estimated indirect       circulation of 22,000; also available through museum's website).
The furnishing of Poplar Cottage has enhanced visitors' experience by       providing them with a robust and well-researched interpretation of what       the interior of a cottage like this might have looked like in the early       seventeenth century.
The selection of shoemaking as an interpretative       scheme offers visitors an insight into a significant rural craft and helps       them to understand the way that small cottages like this one were used as       both domestic and economic spaces.
The museum's trained volunteer stewards       and domestic interpreters are, as a result of the training and information       packs, able to talk to visitors about the cottage's historic context and       the social and economic status of its occupants.
Costumed interpreters       talk to visitors about their clothes, how they were made and what they are       like to wear.
They also discuss how men and women acquired their clothing       and link this in to aspects of the rural economy (e.g.
clothing and       textile production, the role of shops, fairs and pedlars, the availability       of ready-made clothing) and social and domestic life.
A conservative       estimate, informed by WDOAM staff, would be that half of all visitors to       the WDOAM (c70,000 per year and &gt;200,000 from 2011-2013) would visit       Poplar Cottage.
On that basis: Tankard's work has therefore informed       approximately 100,000 visitors.
The newly framed Poplar exhibition informs       their understanding of rural history and activates their historical       imaginations.
Research informs costumed interpretation/broader cultural knowledge of         rural dress       The second project was the production of two seventeenth-century outfits       to be worn by interpreters working in Poplar Cottage.
The `Poplar clothing       project' forms part of the museum's Historic Clothing Project (HCP), which       began in 2007 to produce replica historic clothing to be worn by the       museum's domestic interpreters (staff and volunteers).
All replica       clothing is produced on site by a team of 30 volunteers, under the       supervision of an external clothing consultant, Barbara Painter, and the       museum's domestic life interpreter, Lesley Parker.
Prior to Tankard's       involvement, the HCP produced clothing based on generic sources (i.e.
sources that were not specific to the Weald &amp; Downland region).
Working closely with Painter and Parker, Tankard has applied her       documentary research to the design of the two outfits, selecting garment       types, fabrics, colours and accessories that would have been typical of       those worn by the occupants of Poplar Cottage around 1630.
Thus the HCP       going forward has more accurate regional reference points for its on-going       work.
An exhibition about the Poplar clothing project, held at the museum from       20 to 26 May 2013, was visited by approximately 960 people (counted       manually).
The exhibition displayed the replica clothing alongside       Tankard's text panels explaining what the rural poor wore, how they       acquired their clothing and how archival evidence had been translated into       the production of replica garments.
In addition, two documentary films       explaining Tankard's work were part of the exhibition, both running on a       continuous loop (see further below).
The exhibition was stewarded by       museum staff and volunteers who were able to answer visitors' questions       and visitor responses to the exhibition were collected via a questionnaire       (87 responses) and a visitor book (87 comments).
Responses consistently       showed that the exhibition had informed them about a previously unknown       subject.
84 questionnaire respondents confirmed that the exhibition had       increased their knowledge of the subject.
Observations about what they had       learned from the exhibition showed a high degree of accuracy about its       factual content.
Respondents expressed surprise about the amount and       variety of clothing owned by the rural poor and the use of bright colours       &#8212; both key findings of Tankard's published research.
74 respondents stated       that historic clothing was a useful/important means of learning about the       past.
Moreover, the exhibition visitors book evidences engagement with the       research from people around the UK and internationally including from       Australia, Belgium, Holland, and the US.
The Poplar clothing project was documented in two short films made by       Darren Mapletoft, Senior Lecturer in Digital Film Production at the       University of Chichester.
The longer of the two films (details below)       included an interview with Tankard and Painter about their interest and       expertise in seventeenth-century clothing and what they had learned from       their collaboration.
The shorter of the two films (details below) focused       on natural dyeing.
These films are linked from a number of websites, site       statistics indicate that they have recorded a total of 250 views since       their uploading in May 2013, 25 Facebook likes and comments such as `this       is fascinating' from viewers.
Following on from the exhibition was a       day-school on seventeenth-century clothing at WDOAM held on 17 June 2013.
The day-school also drew on the research materials and outputs of       Tankard's work (displays, films); a total of 12 people attended.
An impact on public understanding of rural history and the quality of the       museum's exhibits was also achieved through various media activity.
In       particular, Tankard was able to describe how the research had informed the       Poplar Clothing Exhibition on an interview on BBC Radio Sussex Breakfast       Programme (Audience reach of 248,000 for June 2013; RAJAR stats).
The       exhibition was also picked up by The Portsmouth News (16 May 2013)       and then actively shared by its readers.
Modest online coverage was       achieved through the pro-active promotion of the event by WDOAM on its       main website, historic clothing blog, Facebook and Twitter platforms.
For       example, WDOAM tweets on the project went to 3854 followers and items       re-tweeted to 10,000 followers by various `active tweeters' and       organisations such as Warwickshire Museum.
