     Odell-Miller's findings and research outputs in the field of live music       interaction with older people with dementia resulted in:     a) Direct implementation, from 2008, of Odell-Miller's music therapy       method in MHA, by ARU graduate Hsu's research collaboration, reaching       1,500-clients across 40 care homes in Britain.
Hsu was invited to present       the joint research at the MHA manager's conference and, as a result, was       employed in the first, full-time music therapy post in the MHA.
Hsu       deployed a model of music therapy based on the music therapist's PGDip       training at Anglia Ruskin University and Odell-Miller's research in       dementia care (Odell-Miller, 1995).
This can also be seen on The Royal       College of Psychiatrists' CPD website as an established method, further       demonstrating impact beyond our immediate HEI (5e).
b) Adoption and development of music therapy in the MHA practice was       demonstrated by the recruitment of twelve qualified music therapists       between 2009-2013, leadership of these developments being overseen by Hsu.
In 2009 a pilot evaluative music therapy study formed the basis of Hsu's       MA Music Therapy thesis at ARU.
Results successfully helped MHA obtain Big       Lottery `Reaching Communities' fund, which enabled the further expansion       of music therapists to cover care homes, 49 homes in total receiving music       therapy, making a difference to over 2,000 older people's lives.
In November 2012, the English Community Care Association published Coming         alive with the sound of music on its website.
This reports:     `The largest charitable care provider for older people in Britain, MHA       provides accommodation, care and support services to 16,000 older people       nationwide.
Priding itself on innovation, it has long provided Music       Therapy from qualified professionals to people with dementia, free of       charge, watching them thrive as they find an alternative way of engaging       with the world and expressing themselves.
Now the charity has commissioned       independent research, assisted by Professor Helen Odell-Miller of Anglia       Ruskin University, to test the hypothesis that Music Therapy can improve       quality of life for people with dementia.
Helen Nairn, a manager in MHA       further commented, "We have seen some astonishing changes in our care       homes when people with dementia receive Music Therapy &#8212; they become so       much more responsive and joyful, and it seems to have a wonderful calming       effect on people who experience anxiety, as a lot of people with dementia       do'.
The same report also comments: `Over 1500 people in MHA care homes       have been able to enjoy Music Therapy and the charity estimates that it       will spend &#163;350,000 a year of its charitable income to support the       therapy.'
(5a).
In 2013, in a corroboration statement for this case study       (5g) the Group Director Operations for MHA writes `Odell-Miller's early       pioneering research with older people (Odell-Miller 1995) underpins the       approach delivered within our homes, using live interactive music therapy       methods to enable better communication, well- being and contentment for       our residents.
Regular advice, consultation and project design in-put from       Professor Helen Odell-Miller on research projects we have carried out and       are currently undertaking in MHAhas contributed to our work environment       and quality of care.'
The MHA website refers to a recent prestigious award they received as the       Best Care Provider in Laing and Buisson's Independent Healthcare Awards       2012.
Laing and Buisson, UK's leading healthcare intelligence provider       cited the establishing of music therapy in the homes as one of the main       reasons for the award (5d).
Impact on their policy and practice is further       demonstrated by the commissioning of a dementia research project by MHA       and ARU, between 2010 and 2012.
Later, in 2013, MHA funded a research       assistant for &#163;25,000, held by ARU graduate Roz Pendrey, investigating the       impact of music therapy upon carers and those with dementia in reducing       Behavioural and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD).
Three MHA care       homes have now embarked on the five-month cluster randomised controlled       trial investigating the impact of music therapy on caring for people with       dementia, who have behavioural symptoms.
The clinical trial is a joint       research project and a PhD study supervised by Odell-Miller.
MHA funded       Hsu to do the PhD.
The impact of the research and its on-going value to older people is       demonstrated through international invitations to speak about the work.
The Norwegian government, in collaboration with The University of Bergen,       invited Odell-Miller and Hsu to advise on similar community-based care       homes and music therapy in November 2012, which will lead to further       international partnerships in the future.
The impact is best summed up in       an article published on the MHA website, effectively demonstrating the       embedding of the music therapy service at MHA, not only in the music       therapy activities, but throughout the whole organisation:     `MHA's Dementia Care Home in Birmingham, have celebrated not only the       Home's recent refurbishment but also the impact music therapy has made on       all their lives by renaming its four wings: Symphony, Harmony, Melody and       Rhapsody.
Now the plan is for MHA to employ a full team of therapists.
"It's very exciting," says Ming.
"With a team we can discuss, plan and       develop our work across the UK.'
(5c)
