     Wild's research has contributed to social and educational welfare through       her work with schools,       counsellor training and counsellor continued professional development       (CPD) sessions.
This case       study describes two situations in which others have used materials       identified and codified by Wild's       research in order to benefit their client groups, in educational and       therapeutic contexts.
Education: Having recognized the potential of her `Making Words       Human' project to help with       literacy, Wild began and maintained regular contact with the literacy       co-ordinator (Gill Gilmartin) of       the three Moorsway Federation Primary Schools in Southwest Devon in early       2012.
This       culminated in Wild's leading a day-long workshop with literacy teachers       from the three schools,       giving them knowledge and the impetus to develop new tools for engaging       school children with       literacy.
Throughout the academic year 2012-2013, Wild continued meeting       with the teachers,       providing further examples from her research and consulting on `making       words human' as a trope.
In the Autumn Term 2012, Moorsway teachers delivered `Personification' or       `Making Words       Human' material with pupils at Key Stage 2 (Years 3-6).
The humorous,       visual and active elements       of textual personification proved of use in engaging reluctant readers,       especially since `thinking       more about how a word feels rather than the meaning linked to it [is] a       key approach' (teacher       feedback following a 2012 day training session with Wild).
The teachers'       written feedback in their       `Analysis of Writing' report outlines the enthusiasm, progress and       achievements of the children at       the end of the teaching sequences, and confirms the impact of Wild's work:       ``the techniques have       been helpful in engaging children with difficult concepts and supporting       their understanding'.
June       2013 SATS statistics confirm value added in terms of `points progress' is       notable across all years       3-6: In Year 6, 62.5% achieved `well above average' of national       expectation; in Year 5, 25%       achieved `above average' beyond national expectation; in Year 4, 100%       achieved `above average'       beyond national expectation; in year 3, 25% achieved `above average'       beyond national       expectation.
The Executive Headteacher at Moorsway has said that:     `we are already clear that the impact on children who struggled or were       reluctant readers and       writers has been very positive, with several children significantly       improving their attainment in       writing.... [T]he Making Words Human project completely captured the       children's interest and gave       the majority of them a renewed interest in reading and writing.
The       project made a valuable       contribution to the Federation Improvement Aims of raising the attainment       in writing.
Equally [the]       project was a very valuable continued professional development opportunity       for all the teachers       involved, enriching their understanding and professional practice.'
In her June 2013 report, Gilmartin describes how the activities `captured       the children's imagination       and thoroughly motivated and engaged them in their writing.
The fact that       the children return to the       idea again and again, demonstrates an enthusiasm and interest that other       units of work haven't       always achieved.'
A specific example is provided of one underachieving Y6       boy who had his       `interest completely captured' and `is now at age-related expectation       having been below at Y2       indicating very good progress.'
Gilmartin has since delivered CPD training based on Wild's work to other       local schools with the       plan to use the `making words human' approach to more broadly improve       literacy.
To this end, Wild       has continued expanding the possibilities of her research, and has worked       with an illustrator to       develop an educational resource using personification of punctuation       marks.
Based on Gilmartin's       view that "This will appeal to groups of children... much more fun than       the traditional, dry way of       introducing punctuation!
', Wild's knock-on project, 'Punctuation Station',       is being rolled out by the       Moorsway schools from September 2013.
Counselling: Wild's work is also enhancing professional practice       and providing an alternative tool       in the ever-expanding field of adult counselling.
Wild has aided the       development of an awareness       training package for counsellors called `Alive to Language' which, since       early January 2013, has       been implemented in consultation with experienced counsellor-trainer,       Jenny Start (member of the       British Association of Counsellors and Psychotherapists).
According to       Start: `There is much value       in this extremely productive and original material (`Alive to Language')       which is all about fostering       and encouraging a deeper understanding of the personal use of words for       both counsellors and       clients, and enhancing the counselling process'.
Start attests to how the       material improves       understanding of how mental states are articulated in counselling       sessions, and focuses on       developing a heightened sensitivity to language-use amongst counsellors.
The programme is       designed to facilitate examination of the language and kinds of       expressions clients use in dialogue       with the counsellor in three key ways:     1) during sessions, `Alive to Language' is employed as a joint exercise       to help with articulation       and expression; it enables experimentation and insights into the power of       language, to describe,       explore and change feelings.
2) as a diagnostic tool after the session.
3) as a tool in continuing professional development, since it has great       potential in two crucial       areas, described by professionals as: 'foster[ing] insight/awareness' and       'emotional and       interpersonal learning' (McLeod, 1993: 66).
The hour-long 'Alive to Language' package has twice been introduced into       an Exeter College       counsellor training course (12th January 2013 &amp; 20th April       2013), using a PowerPoint presentation       developed by Wild and Jenny Start.
Positive feedback forms from 17       participants include:       `previously I think I was resistant to the idea of personifying       objects/words but, having experienced       it myself, I'd try this out in counselling skill practice'; and `a very       useful way to explore and talk       about things that a client may have difficulty expressing otherwise.'
Start successfully introduced a more advanced CPD version of this       material to practising       professional counsellors at the 12th September 2013 meeting of       the West Country Association of       Counsellors and Psychotherapists, the main regional body for the       profession.
Feedback comments       from this day include: `using metaphors for language in counselling will       reduce the client being       disturbed by the process of articulating feelings'; using this material       `will help counsellor and client       when there is "stuckness"' during the counselling session.
With the       success of such short (1-2       hour) sessions of the material, Start will now offer an extended CPD day       based on it, to both       trainee and experienced counsellors (initially, at the Heartwood Centre,       Dartington, Devon:       http://www.heartwoodcounselling.org/contact-us.php).
