     The following impacts arose between January 2008 and July 2013.
1) Changing practice by sports scientists and sports medicine       practitioners in the consideration of fatigue as an aetiological risk       factor for injury; highlighting the influence of fatigue on markers of       injury, and in conducting musculoskeletal profiling and/or implementing       injury prevention strategies post-exercise.
Evidence-based-practice is       paramount to practitioners across a number of user groups, to include       sports scientists, physiotherapists, and medics.
This change in practice       has been evident in both clinical settings and professional football, as       detailed below (KF 1-4).
Clinical Practice: Physiotherapists and medical practitioners have       amended practice to acknowledge the influence of fatigue as an       aetiological factor for injury.
In 2013, Greig was invited by IPRS       Mediquipe to deliver a key-note presentation entitled "Fatigue and       isokinetics in football" to a delegation including clinicians,       physiotherapists, sports scientists and practitioners from elite sport.
Physiotherapists and clinicians were subsequently given the opportunity to       discuss the practical implications of fatigue profiling with Greig and the       distributors of the isokinetic dynamometer used in the research.
Isokinetic profiles are typically conducted at rest.
Greig's research has       highlighted a 20% deficit post-fatigue, and clinically this magnitude of       change would be "red-flagged" for intervention.
Thus medical practitioners       from private health institutions and elite sport have expanded the scope       of isokinetic profiling to consider fatigue (Sources 1 and 2, Section 5).
The most contemporary version of the isokinetic dynamometer, Biodex System       4, has recently been amended to add a fatigue component in the Biofeedback       mode.
This component has the ability to enable the clinician to select the       desired percentage of fatigue (Source 1.
Section 5).
Professional Football: Given the sport-specific focus of the research to       date, the change in practice has been most evident in football.
Over the       last 6 years Greig has worked with the Football Association to provide       sports science support to the development squads, primarily the U16 and       U19 England teams.
His research has influenced his own practice as a       sports scientist.
Players benefit from direct input in post-exercise       prehabilitation programmes.
As a sports scientist with the England squads       Greig has worked with a physiotherapist, team Doctor, and coaching staff.
These colleagues assist in the delivery of the interventions and are       thereby also attaining new skills.
Indirectly, through advisory groups and       conference attendance, sports scientists at professional clubs are       provided with professional development by the Football Association (Source       4, Section 5).
2) Injury prevention policy     This body of research undertaken by Greig considers the influence of       fatigue as a biomechanical, rather than physiological, concern when       evaluating injury risk and has been cited recently in the injury audit       reports produced by UEFA (Risk Factors for Lower Extremity Muscle Injury       in Professional Soccer: The UEFA Injury Study.
Am J Sports Med       2013) and in contemporary reviews of injury prevention strategies       (Hamstring Strain Injuries.
Sports Med 2012; Hamstring injuries:       are we heading in the right direction?
Br J Sports Med 2012; Risk       factors for hamstring muscle strain injury in sport: a systematic review       and meta-analysis Br J Sports Med 2013).
Working toward REF2020 this body of work is evolving to consider       prehabilitation strategies and policy change driven by observations in       other intermittent team sports.
The cumulative impact of sport-specific       exposure over a career in elite sport is also being investigated, with       implications for the care and rehabilitation of retired players.
In a       follow-up of the UEFA Champions League study, the impact of cumulative       fatigue was considered in relation to fixture congestion (Source 5).
The       UEFA recommendation was to consider the design of match schedules to       ensure recovery between games and minimise the impact of fatigue on       injury.
PhD work currently on-going under the supervision of Greig is       considering the replication of tournament demands, using repeated bouts of       the laboratory protocol.
