     During the period January 2008 to July 2013 the collaboration between       researchers, coastal management professionals and other coastal       stakeholders improved the management of coastal resources in Sefton and       other coastal areas.
As a result of research by Worsley and Holden on the NERC FREE programme       (Section 3: 1, 4, 5) and through ongoing engagement with SMBC, Edge Hill       was invited by SMBC to form an expert couplet in a collaborative coastal       management project (IMCORE).
Collaborative work undertaken in this couplet       increased capacity to respond to ecological, social and economic impacts       of climate change on the viability of coastal sectors and the defence of       coastal communities from flooding and erosion (Section 5: 3, 7, 8, 9).
The       role that Worsley's and Holden's expertise on sedimentary dynamics and       integrated coastal zone management (Section 3: 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9) played in       the formation and success of this expert couplet in the IMCORE project is       confirmed by SMBC's Flood and Coastal Erosion Risk Manager, (Factual       Statement (FS) 1): "The partnership with Worsley and Holden was initially       research-focused, in order to gain a better understanding of coastal       processes."
(Section 3: 2, 7; Section 5: 5, 7, 8).
EHU expertise and research undertaken before 2008 and subsequently, were       key to SMBC's approach to integrated coastal zone management (Section 3:       8,9; Section 5: 7) based on the following principles: 1) Decisions must be       based on sound science; 2) Adaptation to coastal change involves the       community itself and therefore necessitates the adequate and timely       sharing of information, knowledge and understanding; and 3) wherever       possible practitioners should engage in working partnerships with academic       teams.
SMBC's Flood and Coastal Erosion Risk Manager, (FS 1) notes: "As a       result of this collaboration we all gained an understanding of our       respective objectives and developed an excellent working partnership       between EHU academics and practitioners.
This thereby facilitated an       improvement in the management of the coast through evidence based policy       making.
This notion of `partnership working' is now strongly founded in       ICZM across the UK and can be seen in EU coastal research".
Coastal       resource management in Sefton was (and continues to be) improved by:     1 &#8212; Generating a flow of new research that responded to the needs of         coastal managers and communities in order to better support ICZM.
The SCP, IMCORE and Pathfinder projects provided a framework within which       new targeted research was commissioned, with a key feature being that the       needs of coastal zone managers and end users were the predominant factor       in shaping the research questions investigated by the Edge Hill team.
2 &#8212; Disseminating research findings effectively to all coastal         stakeholders and undertaking Knowledge Exchange work.
The       partnership provided a vehicle for the dissemination of research findings       and knowledge exchange.
Presentation of scientific or technical       information in an accessible format with key messages was central to this       (Section 5: 4,8).
Activity included field-based training days on historic       coastal change, aimed at end user individuals involved in talking to the       wider community about the changing coastline.
Information was presented in       a way that allowed attendees to pass on the knowledge.
This was followed       by the creation of support materials for the Sefton Coastal Heritage       Landscape project e.g.
Historic Coast and Archaeology visit days, guided       walks, postings on Facebook and Twitter.
EHU-delivered/informed training       has therefore become an integral and accessible part of the programme of       events for communities in the region.
A national conference held in Sefton       in 2008 allowed peer-reviewed conference proceedings to be produced       (Worsley &amp; Holden joint editors) and encouraged involvement from       practitioners, including authors who did not wish to present at the       conference, but whose work was important to include in the published       proceedings (Section 5: 6).
This has provided a valuable resource on a       national scale to both academics and non-academics.
Around 150 people       attended the conference, highlighting the importance of the coastline both       regionally and nationally.
300 printed copies of the proceedings were       produced, along with approximately 50 CD versions.
Printed versions were       distributed to conference attendees, regional public libraries and       university libraries.
All material is available to download from the       IMCORE web-site.
The publication and web materials have increased public       awareness and improved understanding of the changing nature of the Sefton       Coast.
Reflecting on dissemination work, SMBC's Flood and Coastal Erosion       Risk Manager comments, "Due to the long-standing nature of the       partnership, Worsley and Holden established a reputation as trusted       facilitators and sources of knowledge within the wider coastal       practitioner community.
This was further strengthened by me having the       confidence in them to be able to recommend them unequivocally in this       role.
Through the partnership we recognise our respective strengths and       work well together as a team.
All this has led to a significant       dissemination of academic knowledge far better than any I have previously       experienced".
(FS 1).
A 52 page publication timelining the historical events of the Sefton       coast was produced, for an inclusive audience, by Sefton Council Coastal       Defence and EHU (Holden and Worsley) in collaboration with the Sefton       Coast Landscape Partnership Scheme.
It highlights how the coast has       changed continually, and how people have adapted to change.
It is       available in all libraries in Sefton, from coastal partners (e.g.
the       National Trust) and online via Sefton's Natural Coast website.
Initially       4,000 copies of the publication were printed and distributed, but with       every copy being allocated, and libraries requesting further copies, a       further 4,000 copies were printed.
The publication was considered very       informative for a range of stakeholders, from members of the public to       students, visitors, and as a key reference for practitioners concerning       expertise outside of their own field (Section 5: 9).
SMBC's Flood and       Coastal Erosion Risk Manager comments "The [publication] provides a good       example of collaborative working, being a document with a clear purpose       and format &#8212; to communicate a substantive message regarding coastal change       to the public in a way that is both accessible and interesting.
It was       brought together as a collaborative approach through the partnership but       benefited greatly from the ability of Worsley and Holden to communicate       technical knowledge to a non-technical audience".
The quality and impact       of this work is confirmed by North West Coastal Forum (NWCF) Secretariat       in FS 2: "The partnership working involved in producing the Timeline       publication was acknowledged as a key part of the reason why Sefton       Council were awarded the North West Award for Coastal Excellence 2012:       Best Practice.
The publication, and an innovative education pack, produced       as part of the IMCORE project work, were considered outstanding examples       of best practice and successful stakeholder engagement, contributing to       four of NWCF's six core objectives designed to create a more sustainable       coast".
The Timeline publication is being replicated by Administra&#231;&#227;o da       Regi&#227;o Hidrogr&#225;fica do Tejo (Portugal) for their coastal zone to enhance       understanding of long-term change (FS 2), and elsewhere in the UK (Other       Source 9).
The influence of collaborative work in Sefton has been transmitted       through the North West Coastal Forum (chaired by Worsley since 2011), to       other coastal groups, as confirmed by SMBC's Flood and Coastal Erosion       Risk Manager (FS 1): "The experiences gained through this research       partnership with EHU have become embedded in the way that we now approach       management on the Sefton Coast.
Further to this we seek to encourage its       use in other partnerships within which we operate, such as the North West       and North Wales Coastal Group".
As the North West Coastal Forum       Secretariat confirms (FS 2): "Professor Worsley's involvement with the       NWCF arose directly from her work with Sefton Council, it was felt she       would bring a good understanding of the need for and benefits of       multi-sector partnership working on complex coastal issues, with her       experience being particularly relevant in terms of bridging the gap       between academic research and practitioners' needs".
Influence has also been transmitted beyond the Irish Sea coasts of       England and Wales.
As the NWCF Secretariat confirms (FS 2), "The success       of the SCP and IMCORE was reflected in the lead role taken by the North       West Coastal Forum in the EU SUSTAIN project (2009-12) which brought EU       coastal communities in partnership with academic institutions across the       EU to devise new methods of defining sustainability in coastal zones".
The       NWCF Secretariat continues (FS 2): "Professor Worsley's role in the NWCF       and her knowledge and expertise built up through many years of working on       coastal issues have been key in influencing and driving forward the work       of the Forum from this time onwards and in supporting the full range of       Forum interests in integrated coastal management.
Because of this, the       Secretariat, on behalf of NWCF, has been called upon to advise coastal       groups nationally and internationally."
