     Conditional cash transfer (CCT) programmes have been hailed as highly       effective in Mexico and many other countries in Latin America and around       the world, where they have been instrumental in reducing poverty and       improving social indicators for many poor households.
They have also been       widely studied by academic researchers, in part because of the       availability of rich data collected to evaluate them.
Professor Attanasio       has been a major contributor to both policy and academic debate about such       programmes; as a result, he and his research have played an important role       in the development and design of CCTs benefiting millions of people in       Latin America.
Examples of the impacts of Attanasio's research on individual CCT       programmes in Latin America are described below; the broader significance       of his work, however, is suggested by its citation more than 50 times in       the 2009 World Bank Policy Research report, Conditional Cash         Transfers: Reducing Present and Future Poverty.
This influential       report shaped the World Bank's policy on providing US$ 2.4 billion in       lending to scale up and start CCT operations in 2009 alone [1, 2].
Reshaping Oportunidades (Mexico): PROGRESA, which was renamed       Oportunidades in 2003 when it was expanded to urban areas, is one of the       most successful cash transfer programmes in Latin America and a key       instrument of Mexican social policy.
The programme now has over 20 million       beneficiaries and is widely seen as an effective method of reducing       poverty (especially in rural Mexico), increasing enrolment in secondary       school, improving the nutritional status of children and empowering women       living in poor households.
Between 2002 and 2008, Attanasio's work as a member of the advisory board       supporting the evaluation of Oportunidades by the Government of Mexico       (see [a] [b] and [d]) allowed him to recommend a set of changes which, he       argued, would maximise the benefits of conditional cash transfers.
In 2009       the Mexican government followed this advice in its expansion of the       programme to the cities of Puebla and Ecatepec.
In particular, it drew on       Attanasio's research to pilot a revised grant structure abolishing primary       school grants and increasing those supporting secondary school attendance       [4].
These changes were introduced in Puebla and Ecatepec, each of which       has over 2 million inhabitants, many of whom live in poverty.
Since the       evaluation had revealed relatively small impacts of the existing programme       on school enrolment in urban areas, it was particularly salient to       redesign the programme in this way before it was rolled out in these       cities.
Two versions of the programme, revised to reflect findings and       recommendations in [a] and [b], were piloted in Puebla and Ecatepec       between 2008 and 2011, alongside a traditional version of the programme.
Both of the alternative versions eliminated primary school grants and       increased secondary school grants; in one version, however, a further       increase in school grants was triggered by academic performance meeting       certain minimum standards.
New families registered into the CCT in these       cities were randomly allocated either to one of these two new versions, or       to the traditional version of the programme.
In January 2008, Professor       Attanasio was invited by the Mexican government and the IADB to advise on       the design of this experiment, and to direct its evaluation, which the       IADB partly financed; he did so between 2008 and 2010.
In 2008, of the 35,000 households included in the programme in Puebla and       Ecatepec, about 9,000 were included in the experiment.
Of these, a control       group of around 3,000 were assigned to the original programme and 6,000 to       the two new versions.
The evaluation found that the new grant structure &#8212;       which added about 15% to the traditional secondary school grant &#8212;       increased the attendance of girls in Ecatepec (but not Puebla) by about       8%.
The results of the study were presented in a report delivered to the       IADB and the Mexican government in 2011.
The results of the evaluation prompted a significant change in and       benefit to the Mexican government's approach to Oportunidades [3],       particularly in terms of enhancing understanding of those modifications to       the programme that would improve secondary school attendance without       significant extra cost [10].
Research was the main reason behind the       Mexican government's decision in subsequent years to reshape school       assistance programmes [10].
A change in government at the end of 2011       delayed the implementation of these modifications for political reasons,       but by mid-2013 Attanasio's findings were again being studied and       considered by the new Oportunidades administration to inform planned       changes throughout Mexico.
This is demonstrated by the fact that in July       2013 the IADB requested Attanasio's advice on forthcoming changes to the       programme.
He was invited to meet and advise the new administration on the       design and evaluation of all changes to Oportunidades between 2014 and       2018 [5].
Expansion of Familias in Acciones (Colombia): Between 2004 and       2006 Attanasio presented the results of his evaluation of the Colombian       CCT programme, Familias en Accion through a series of briefings for       policymakers [c, d, e] and officers from the World Bank and IADB.
At that       time, the Colombian government was thinking of closing down Hogares       Comunitarios (HC), a large community nursery programme reaching 1 million       children, to finance the possible expansion of Familas en Accion.
The       evaluation conducted by Attanasio and his team had also considered the       impacts of HC [d], finding that it had positive effects on the nutritional       status of the poorest young children.
Attanasio's research was key in       ensuring that, during its expansion phase, the project&#180;s design followed       evidence-based best practices and included a solid impact evaluation       design [10].
In 2005, and again in 2007, the Colombian government drew explicitly on       Attanasio's evaluation to inform its expansion of Familias en Accion [6].
These successive expansions made Familias en Accion the country's largest       welfare programme throughout the impact census period.
In 2008 the       programme was piloted in Bogota, where the government experimented with       different grant structures, some of which were inspired by the advice       given in Attanasio and his co-authors' reports.
Although these expansions       took place before the start of the impact period, the benefits are both       ongoing and substantial for the 3 million households affected by them [6].
In 2009 Professor Attanasio's close engagement with the Familias en       Accion programme led to an important collaborative project (funded by the       ESRC, the IADB, the World Bank and DfID to a total of about &#163;1 million)       piloting an 18-month stimulation and nutrition intervention to foster       cognitive development in young children in Colombia.
The intervention was       tested in 96 small towns, each with 5,000-50,000 inhabitants, and targeted       children aged 12-24 months.
Part of its novelty lay in its delivery by       community women who acted as representatives of Familas en Accion.
The       intervention, which was significantly underpinned by the collaboration       with Attanasio, demonstrated a remarkable impact on children's cognitive       and language development.
As well as benefiting the children involved in       it (who showed cognition and language improvements of about 25% of a       standard deviation of the score), the project increased awareness of the       importance of child development, and of the pivotal role that mothers and       the immediate family could play in promoting that, even when financial       resources are limited [7].
The project was awarded a prize for outstanding       international impact at the ESRC Celebrating Impact Awards 2013.
This pilot project also made significant contributions to policy         discussion, debate and formulation both in Colombia and more widely,       including through two large events organised by the research team to       disseminate its findings among decision-makers around the world.
The       first, held in Bogota on 26 March 2012 and co-organised with the IADB, was       attended by Colombian policymakers, practitioners and researchers who had       the opportunity to discuss the lessons learned from the Familias en Accion       example [8].
The second was a conference on `Early Childhood Development       and Human Capital Accumulation', held in London on 25-26 June 2012.
Co-organised with the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation       (3IE), this academic conference included a high level of participation by       practitioners, donors, and government officials from all over the world,       who discussed how this cutting-edge research could be applied to their own       national contexts [9].
Professor Attanasio has also presented the       project's results in a number of other forums, e.g.
a high-profile       conference at the National Academy of Sciences (March 2013) and a webinar       for the van Leer foundation (May 2013).
Written summaries of the project       and its preliminary findings were widely disseminated, generating       considerable attention amongst policymakers within and beyond Colombia.
This led, for example, in early 2013 to a technical assistance       collaboration with the Peruvian Government, facilitated by the IADB.
Drawing on their experience and the results of the research conducted in       Colombia, the research team has since supported the Peruvian Government in       the design of a comparable home visiting programme targeting children 0-3       years old, which is a fundamental component of their wider early childhood       development strategy (Cuna M&#225;s) [7].
The programme was launched on 24       March 2013, and will eventually reach millions of poor children in Peru.
