     Bennett's expertise has achieved impact in three key areas:     1.
Naval heritage and economic impact       On the basis of his research on naval strategy and the role of       German Schnellboats in WWII       Bennett has been the project historian on the rebuilding of a       sole-surviving S-130 German motor       torpedo boat.
This &#163;5m multi-partner project involves collaboration       between The Wheatcroft       Collection of Military History, Roving Commissions Ltd, ThinkPlusInk, the       Nordic Marine Service       and Quayside Metals.
The owner of the collection noted that `Dr Bennett's       research has materially       and significantly impacted on the process of rebuilding and has played an       important role in       maintaining the on-going investment of the Wheatcroft Collection in the       project, securing jobs       (approximately 6 across the duration of the project) in South East       Cornwall (an area of significant       economic deprivation)'.
Six local craftsmen have been employed and 4       companies contracted from       the South East Cornwall region, an area of economic deprivation.
Bennett also engaged documentary-makers with the project and unearthed       materials       (including test data) facilitating the rebuild, for example, on the order       of construction and details on       maintenance cycles such as the life-span of pistons in a Mercedes Benz 512       marine diesel engine.
He provided visual material for the interiors and information on where       spare parts might be located.
A supporting letter from Kevin Wheatcroft, the boat's owner acknowledged       that these contributions       `helped the shipwrights and metal workers involved in the project to       understand the order of       construction, difficulties faced and solutions employed'.
The knowledge       that Schnellboote were       also being built in Gdansk and that a post war Soviet design was closely       modelled on the       Schnellboote, enabled the restoration team to use contacts in       Poland to see if any original       materials, plans or tooling remain.
Bennett's findings and work on the S-130 renovation were disseminated by       interview on BBC       6 O'Clock News (13 August 2010), enjoying an audience of approximately 6       million viewers, with       follow-up reporting on BBC Radio 4 News, BBC Radio 5 Live News, BBC Radio       Devon News and       BBC Radio Cornwall News (13 August 2010).
Details are published in `The         Restoration of S-130:       The         Last German Motor Torpedo Boat of the Second World War', The         Second World War Military         Operations Research Papers, No.
1 (2012) http://secondworldwaroperationsresearchgroup.wordpress.com/research-papers/.
2) Naval Heritage and the Formulation of Public Policy       Bennett's research on twentieth-century military strategy and policy has       been contributed to       discussion on public policy for naval heritage initially through his       involvement with the Phoenix       Think Tank, for whom he produced a paper in 2011 entitled, `UK Armed       Forces Future Force       Structure: An Outline for 2025' (16 October 2011) (http://www.phoenixthinktank.org/2011/10/uk-armed-forces-future-force-structure-an-outline-for-2025/).
This argued that the UK Navy has       reached a critical position with potentially increased maritime/sea       threats in the coming period.
He       developed these ideas in a paper on `The Royal Navy and the Second World       War: Some Relevant       Lessons' delivered at a two-day non-academic conference, an interface with       the military and       professional maritime sector, organised in September 2012 at Plymouth       University.
Speakers       informed by Bennett's research and involved in these debates about the       present state of the Royal       Navy included Rear-Admiral Clive Johnstone (Flag Officer Sea Training for       the Royal Navy &#8212; FOST),       Julian Parker (Head of the Maritime Foundation), Nick Childs (BBC       correspondent and       Author of Britain's Future Navy), Commander Gerry Northwood RN       (awarded an MBE in January       2012 for anti-piracy work off Somalia) and Andrew St George (author of The         Royal Navy Way of         Leadership).
Because of his research Bennettwas invited to become a member of the       Britannia Naval       Museum Trust and to become trustee of the historical books, manuscripts,       and artefacts and       guardian of their historic paintings.
In this role he has helped raise the       Trust's profile and became       general editor of the 'Britannia Naval Histories of World War II' series,       the flagship publication on       naval history based on archives at the British Royal Naval College).
The       Duke of Edinburgh,       Admiral Sir Mark Stanhope GCB OBE ADC, First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval       Staff and the former       head of the Royal Navy Lord West have endorsed the series.
Lord West       wrote: `Our Nation seems       to be in denial about its reliance on the maritime and a series such as       this may in a small way       redress the balance'.
(See in 5.5 below.)
Bennett has written forewords       for 3 of the first 7 volumes.
As at May 2013 the books generated a net income of &#163;11,013 (excluding       internet sales), 10% of       which is given to BRNC for preservation of the collections.
3) Media-news agenda, and public awareness of historical           events       Bennett has communicated to a wide audience outside academia through radio       and television,       documentaries and mainstream publications.
His reassessment of the Free       French Squadrons       collaborating with the RAF (listed above) was reported in an interview       with BBC 6 O'clock news (6       November 2009), with approximately 6 million viewers, and an additional       audience from BBC News       24 and BBC World (weekly audience of 82 million).
The report was run on       BBC I-player 147,000       times in the 24 hours following the initial broadcast, and featured       follow-up reporting and public       dissemination in the local press.
His linked article in BBC History         Magazine (`Second World War       Special', 2010), pp.62-63 circulated to over 70,000 readers, and the       related podcast had over       100,000 downloads.
Drawing on his expertise developed through research       that informed, for       example, The Nazi, the Painter and the Forgotten Story of the SS Road       (2012), Bennett has       contributed to a range of media.
In April 2011 he was interviewed on BBC       10 O'Clock News as an       expert on German Police and the SS in South Russia.
Bennett has also acted       as an historical       consultant to documentary companies, and contributed research to 'The Real       Battle of Britain' (first       broadcast BBC 2, 22 September 2010), `Discovery of HMS Ullswater' (BBC       Inside Out, 15       November 2010) and 'Wartime Secrets with Harry Harris, programme 5 (D-Day       Secrets)' (first       Broadcast on Discovery History, 5 December 2010).
