     In 2011 Ohene-Djan spun Viewtalk off into a business, offering completely       free access to members of the deaf and hearing-impaired community and       commercial marketing services to companies interested in engaging with       that community.
Organisations that have used the Viewtalk service [2]       include the London Zoo, John-Lewis Partnership, Heathrow Airport, and the       Science Museum [2,6,8].
Since 2009 the deaf advocacy charity Deafax has       promoted Viewtalk as a means of creating multi-media information       resources.
As well as providing media for the deaf and hearing-impaired       community [6], Viewtalk also provided employment for members of that       community: at its height, Viewtalk had 20 employees, 13 of whom were deaf       or hearing-impaired [5].
The benefits of Viewtalk have been recognised by experts in education,       social cohesion, and social policy.
This is evidenced in a set of video       interviews incorporating sign language with the following people: Sabine       Iqbal, UK Founder of Deaf Parenting [5]; Malcolm Bruce MP and Bob Russell       MPs members of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Deafness; Eva Fielding       Jackson, trustee for the British Deaf Association; Paul Enales, Chief       Executive Officer of the Anti-Bullying Alliance; Paul Simpson form the       British Association of Teacher of the Deaf (BATOD); Tom Fenton, Chief       Executive Officer of the Royal Association for Deaf People; Ines Sleeboom       Van Raaij, President of the European Congress of Mental Health; Catherine       Forry, Founder of Deaf Advocacy and Justice 4 Deaf People; Lord Michael       Heseltine, former Deputy Prime Minister.
Paul Simpson of the BATOD       typifies responses to using the system: "Viewtalk is a great example         of a British university producing an assistive technology that really         goes to the heart of what's needed for young deaf people today.
It's         innovative and uses the Internet to communicate which is essential."
[2]     Five secondary schools from across the UK participated in a pilot       project, during the period October 2010 and July 2011, which enabled       pupils to make videos on a range of school and community topics.
Teachers       reported positive effects on pupils' communication, teamwork,       organisation, presentation, self-confidence, leadership and time       management.
Examples of children's work can be found on the ViewTalk       webpages [2].
The Principal of Donaldson's College, Scotland's national       educational centre for people with special hearing and communications       needs, said: "Viewtalk will offer ... opportunity to deaf people for         getting support and I am really delighted to be taking part in promoting         that.''
A second project, which trialled the use of Viewtalk in two       special needs schools, received lottery funding of &#163;10,000 in July 2011.
The project had 32 student participants, 55 parent participants, 20       teachers and 5 volunteer psychologists.
Measured outcomes identified that       90% of students had a positive experience of using the Viewtalk technology       and 42 parent respondents stated that Viewtalk was the most advanced       technology their child had used successfully.
The Deputy Head of a Special       School, Berkshire, Reading, stated that: "the pilot project had         measurable benefits in increasing their understanding of how technology         can be used with Special Needs students".
In evaluating the pilot, Dr Berry Billingsley, Associate Professor in       Science Education and parent of a child with Autistic Spectrum Disorders       (ASD), and Dr Cathy Tissot, Specialist in ASD, noted that the technical       and communication skills of the pupils had increased and given everyone       concerned more confidence to engage with video online communication for       educational purposes.
The project was successfully completed in April 2012       [7].
WinkBall was established as a company in 2009.
It had a turnover of &#163;2.5       million a year for 3 years, a staff of 60 full-time employees [8], 300       interim reporters (in the UK, the US, India and South Africa), and an       active user group of 150,000.
At the end of this 3-year period, the       specified objectives of WinkBall had been achieved in terms of technical       advances in video content creation and multi-user, large scale access.
From July 2012, the WinkBall project was scaled back so that focus could       be given to the development of new technologies for mobile video       communication using the WinkBall infrastructure.
This work is currently       underway.
From August 2009 to July 2012, 3 million videos were uploaded to       WinkBall and there were over 30 million views [3].
A wide range of organisations have found WinkBall an effective part of       their communications strategy and became paid clients [4].
Clients have       included Visit Britain, Transport for London, Crossrail, London       Development Agency, London Ambassadors, LOCOG, The Mayor's Office, the       Greater London Authority, Sony Music, Sky Sports, William Hill, Zurich,       Jeep, Daily Telegraph, Shell, Disney, Sky Bet, and The Sun.
Innovative       campaigns such as Transport for London's Barclays Cycle Hire Launch, the       Olympic London Ambassador's Launch, Sony Music's Why Music Matters       campaign and WinkBall's Faces for the Forces campaign led to WinkBall       being nominated Finalists for several major industry awards, including the       Marketing Week Engage Awards 2010, the Chartered Institute for Public       Relations Awards 2011 and the PR Week Awards 2011 [4].
WinkBall ran several high-impact international campaigns [3].
For       example, "Faces for the Forces" enabled the public to send a million video       messages of support to the UK Armed Forces in Afghanistan was conducted       annually between 2009 and 2011.
Brigadier AT Davies MBE at HQ, Joint       Forces [9] sent a letter of thanks to Winkball and the project was       publically endorsed by David Cameron.
In another example, 500 candidates       in the 2010 UK general election used WinkBall to communicate with voters       in the "Do You Know Who You're Voting For?"
campaign from January 2010 to       May 2010 [3].
Working in collaboration with the United Nations and the       Hoping Foundation charity, WinkBall helped commemorate the 20th       anniversary of the year of the Child and the 60th anniversary of the       creation of UNRWA by using video technology to connect 500 United Nations       schools in Palestine, Syria, Jordan and Lebanon, during the period June       2009 to August 2010, enabling 50,000 school children to record video       messages expressing their hopes and dreams for the future in an online       video yearbook [10].
In 2010, 80,000 videos were recorded that provided a unique insight into       the hopes, dreams and events of the first African nation to host a World       Cup.
The impact was recognised at the highest level within South Africa,       with the High Commissioner of South Africa, Dr Zola Skweyiya personally       inviting Ohene-Djan to present the WinkBall video content and technology       to all of London's African Ambassadors and High Commissioners who were       invited to a reception at South Africa House on 23rd July 2010.
Dr Zola Skweyiya stated that: "In a million years I can't describe what       this tells you in five minutes about South Africa".
Niall Wilkins, First       Secretary Political, South African High Commission, stated that the       WinkBall video archive and technology "truly captured the legacy of the       2010 FIFA World Cup", and was an important record for the South African       nation.
He stated that: "I am going to speak to a friend of mine in the       Presidency about this".
The WinkBall archive was donated to the University       of Capetown and the South African Tourist Board [3].
