     The RYA and UC collaborative research programme has resulted in impact in       four broad and       interrelated areas in the period 1/1/2008 to 31/7/2013 materially linked       to the programme of       research described in section 2.     i.
Changes to practices of the RYA relating to training and support of         Youth, Podium         Potential and Podium squad athletes;     The research described in section 2 provided the foundation for       developing the first evidenced       based guidelines to underpin physical training for elite sailors, which       were later distributed to the       wider sailing community.
Cunningham and Hale's early work generated the       first data quantifying       the physical demands placed upon elite sailors during training and       simulated competition, from       which a novel sailing ergometer was developed, which has been used in       later sailing research and       support work.
To support the introduction and development of the evidenced based       training practices; regular       physiological monitoring of ~50-100 Youth, Podium Potential and Podium       squad sailors per year       was conducted annually in the UC laboratories (1995-2010) (~150-300 in the       REF period).
In 2011       the RYA began to undertake this testing at their headquarters in Portland;       portable replicas of the       laboratory equipment were developed at UC and are still serviced by       university staff.
In this (at       least) bi-annual testing; cardiorespiratory fitness and muscular strength       and endurance are       measured and training heart rates are analysed.
These data are used to       evaluate the impact of       interventions (e.g.
boat design), training regimes and competition and       feedback for future       developments.
ii.
Publication and dissemination of the Concept2 Indoor Rowing         Sailing Guide by         Fletcher Sport Science and Concept2 a leading manufacturer and retailer         of rowing         machines     Cunningham collaborated with Eddie Fletcher, a commercial sports science       consultant, to develop       and publish the Indoor Rowing Sailing Guide for use with the Concept2       indoor rowing ergometers,       which is now also freely available as a download from Fletcher's and       Concept2's commercial       websites (first published 2007 and downloaded an estimated 7,000 times       since), it was also       translated into Italian and promoted by various other unrelated sailing       and fitness organisations       across the globe.
Cunningham's contribution to this guide was a key factor       in Concept2, one of the       world's leading rowing machine manufacturer and retailers, becoming the       RYA's preferred supplier       of rowing ergometers at no cost to the RYA (up to 20 units in any year).
This guidance is underpinned by Cunningham's research and is the first       evidenced based training       guidelines using rowing ergometers to simulate the cardiorespiratory and       neuromuscular demands       of sailing.
The guide has been written for elite and recreational sailors,       including those in younger       and older age categories.
Individual heart rate zones are used to       prescribe training intensity.
Specific training programmes were devised for all of the Olympic sailing       classes (i.e.
different       dinghys and sailboards), with five incremental levels of application,       ensuring the training could be       used by athletes in the Youth, Podium Potential and Podium squads.
iii.
Performance gains for individuals and teams at the elite and         recreational level.
The development of the collaborative RYA and UC research and applied       sports science support       programmes over the past three decades have paralleled the increase in       funding for both elite       sailors and their support teams (including sports science and medicine).
It is therefore difficult to       quantify the exact impact that the aforementioned research and support       programmes have had on       athletes' success.
However, it is notable that Team GB's sailors were at       the top of the medal tables       at the 2000, 2004 and 2008 Olympic Games and 3rd in 2012; of       particular note were the 3 gold       medals in 2008 achieved for single-handed sailing, the focus of       Cunningham's research work.
Iain       Percy (Double Olympic champion) provides testament to the significant       contribution of       Cunningham's sports science support work in helping the team to win medals       (see section 5,       source 8).
In the 12 months building up to 2008 Olympic Games (opened 8/8/2008) and       during the       competition period (i.e.
after 1/1/2008 and within the REF period), new       haematological and       biochemical analysis techniques were developed (see Lewis et al.
2009 in section 3) and used with       all 18 of the British Sailing Team to rapidly identify markers of       increased illness risk.
This enabled       training and nutritional interventions to be targeted to reduce illness,       improve training progression       and safely and effectively lose weight (see section 5, source 8).
The       wider impact of the       development of these techniques has not been documented but there are       clear applications to the       wider sporting community.
iv.
The transfer of skills and knowledge to other elite sport         organisations and teams     The early work of Cunningham and Hale set the foundation on which a more       established sports       science and medicine team has now developed, they are able to draw on       novel research and       support techniques developed in other disciplines to inform their own best       practice.
In turn the RYA       and UC are using this knowledge to continue to drive and refine their own       research and support       programme including an on-going PhD research programme and the continuing       monitoring and       support to maintain the British Sailing Team's world class performance.
The progression of       Cunningham to the role of as Head of Sport Science and Medicine in Team       Artemis (America's       Cup Team)4, Campbell and Mullan to more senior roles has led to       wider dissemination and impact       of the knowledge and skills form their roles in the RYA and UC.
