     Two key changes in practice have arisen from our research.
Firstly, there       have been improvements in chelation treatment for patients with       transfusional and non-transfusional iron overload, particularly with the       orally active chelator deferasirox.
Secondly, there is improved monitoring       of patients with transfusional iron overload.
This has resulted in       improved rates of survival from iron overload and better quality of life       for patients.
Over half the TM patients in the UK [390] are followed by       the Joint Red Cell Unit of UCLH and the Whittington Hospital, led by       Porter (the UK Registry).
Recent analysis has shown that survival is       improving progressively.
The decade to 2009 saw an almost three-fold fall       in the proportion of patients with myocardial iron overload.
Mortality is       substantially lower and cardiac iron overload is no longer the leading       cause of mortality [a].
The underpinning research described above, from preclinical to clinical       stages of development, has resulted in deferasirox, a novel orally active       chelating agent, becoming the first line treatment for transfusional iron       overload in the developed world.
It was licensed by the FDA in 2005 [b]       and the EMA in 2006 [c].
Porter's contribution to the development       of deferasirox was recognised by Novartis when he was asked to accept the       Prix Galien prize at the House of Commons in 2008, awarded to Novartis for       innovative research in development in orphan drugs [d].
Deferasirox is now recommended in guidelines issued by the Thalassaemia       International Federation (TIF) [e], by the UK Thalassaemia Society       [f] in Canada [g] and in the US [h].
In excess of       65,000 patients have received deferasirox, a cumulative exposure of       163,350 patient years, with global sales exceeding $800m annually [i].
Use of this drug results in improved quality of life for patients, because       they no longer need to endure treatment administered by prolonged       infusion, but can take an orally active medication [j].
In 2012,       the license for deferasirox was extended to include the new indication of       the treatment of iron overload in non-transfusion dependent thalassaemia.
These patients become iron-overloaded because of excess iron absorption       from the GI tract, and deferasirox is now indicated where alternative iron       chelators are ineffective or poorly tolerated [k].
Improved monitoring had been particularly advanced by the use of MRI to       identify patients with the highest risk of cardiac disease from iron       overload.
Early identification of high-risk patients allows intervention       with intensification of chelation therapy.
This approach is now       recommended worldwide, as described in a recent review of guidelines which       said: "All guidelines recommend cardiac siderosis assessment by cardiac         T2* MRI" [l].
In the UK, longitudinal monitoring by cardiac       MRI has become standard practice [m].
This approach is       increasingly impacting on survival and quality of lives of children and       young adults with TM at risk of death each year in low and middle income       countries.
