     WiCR works closely with industry to share knowledge and understand the       commercial imperatives of the sector.
In 2005, it organised the first       Loughborough Antennas &amp; Propagation Conference to foster collaborative       knowledge transfer and extend the reach of its work.
This significant       annual showcase is a truly global event and attracts c.250 international       delegates from research, industry and governments (5.1).
In 2012,       over 200 papers were submitted.
It has been described as "a premier         workshop in the world" and as providing "the 'right' atmosphere         for the 'meeting of minds in a unique way that other workshops are now         trying to emulate" by Raj Mittra, Director, Electromagnetic       Communication Lab, Pennsylvania State University and as having         "significant and enduring value to the antenna research and design         community not only in the UK, but also Europe and the world as a whole"       by Prof Leo Kempel, Michigan State University.
In 2001, as an outlet for the commercial potential of WiCR's research,       Antrum Ltd span out of the University with Prof. Vardaxoglou as Technical       Director and the University as a shareholder.
Antrum trades successfully,       with several major clients such as ESA, Orange, BSkyB, Sarantel and Philex       and a consistently buoyant turnover of c. &#163;150K pa (5.2).
Working       closely with WiCR, Antrum refines research outcomes into designs and       specialist devices for applications in aerospace and defence, smart       commercial and industrial communications, medical and automotive markets.
WiCR and Antrum have maintained a connection with Sarantel (5.3)       (designers of high-performance miniature antennas for portable wireless       applications) over several years.
A significant project designed and       interrogated the functioning of a novel antenna for GPS applications       (research papers 3.1 - 3.3 above).
Once the antenna's design and operation       was fully understood, the research developed innovative techniques to       control its manufacture.
The collaborators developed the dielectric-loaded       quadrifilar helical antenna, which Sarantel markets as PowerHelix       technology.
The research built-up an understanding of how the quadrifilar       helical antenna has little interaction with its close environment &#8212; a       highly desirable feature for mobile equipment antennas.
PowerHelix       has a right-hand circular polarisation generating a cardioid-shaped       reception pattern above the antenna.
The active part of the antenna is       isolated from the handset case and has a very small near-field region       making it less susceptible to close body proximity or other absorbing       material than conventional designs.
Much of the Sarantel research aimed to understand how complex devices,       such as these antennas, might be simulated using commercial software, as a       cost effective, practical option for both for research and industrial       applications (for example, see 5.4).
This knowledge is retained       within WiCR and has informed subsequent research projects.
Significantly Sarantel were able to refine their manufacturing processes       and to produce six antenna variants targeted at a range of customers       worldwide.
Sarantel gained a competitive advantage in the sector.
The       technology is now utilised in the following:            AutoSeis HDR1C autonomous seismic node.
Mobile solutions AG in a GPS telephone.
Algodue Elettronica in their Geopoint portable GPS tracker.
Tom Tom's Navigator 6 Bluetooth Receiver       Hewlett Packard's iPAQ rx5000 series travel companion       HyOn in their personal multimedia player       Locosys in several products       Benefon TWIG Discovery Smartphone       ST Electronics in their ruggedised PDAs       Hummingbird GPS fish finder from Johnson Outdoors (USA)          In a competitive market, this enhanced product line was crucial to       Sarantel's success.
The company expanded to Japan &#8212; exporting British       technology based on British research.
They currently employ c. 43 people       and had a six-month turnover, as at 31/03/2011, of &#163;1.03m.
To give a second significant example of the transformation of research       into commercial reality, the potential of novel outdoor VHF antennas made       using metamaterials was explored in a PhD project (Nerijus Riauka, 2007 -       2010) which drew upon several areas of research (papers 3.4 - 3.6 above)       to arrive at `the Blade' novel antenna.
Several innovative research steps       met the specific demands of digital TV which were posed by the industrial       collaborator Philex Ltd (UK) (5.5).
The technology's potential was       recognised early and IP protection secured by Antrum with the University's       co-operation (UK Patent Application: 1212340.2, EC Design Registration:       2074567) (5.6).
An EPSRC KTA award (2010-2011), allowed WiRC and       Antrum to develop the Blade further improving both its       functionality and aesthetic appeal.
A license has been signed with Philex       and the Blade antenna is currently in production with advanced       negotiations nearing conclusion with major retailers both in the UK and US       (5.7).
