     The impact of Loughborough research on wireless monitoring and control       technologies is increasing the awareness of industrial collaborators of       new wireless technologies, equipping them and public audience with the       capabilities, leading and working with the industrial collaborators       converting/integrating Loughborough low-cost wireless solutions into       commercial products and services so creating economic benefits.
These       technologies have been disseminated in the form of product-like       prototypes, demonstration systems, technical reports, and seminars.
The       end-users of our technologies include an automotive manufacturer (Toyota       UK in Derby), a logistic distribution centre (Toys R Us in Coventry),       domestic households (through Sure Technology), and a technical service       provider (IDC, Derby).
The significance of the impact is providing       low-cost wireless network enabled capability of monitoring and control to       a wide range of applications including mobile object tracking, fire safety       detection, home energy saving.
Pathway to impact     We have been running two project websites since 2006, (www.indeednet.org)       and (www.firesafetynet.org.uk)       which have attracted significant number of enquiries from industry.
We       produced a newsletter and a DVD for fire safety protection and distributed       it to the emergency response community.
We also demonstrated our wireless       domestic radiator valve controller at Ecobuild 2011, Excel in London,       March, 2011.
The SafetyNET was presented as a keynote to the TIEMS (The       International Emergency Management Society) 17th Annual       Conference 2010 in Beijing.
It was also presented to Chinese industries in       the UK-China IoT Tech-transfer event in Shanghai and Wuxi in December       2011, jointly organised by Technology Strategy Board and Chinese local       governments.
The home automation and energy harvesting system was       presented to Masterclass-wireless sensor networks, RTLS and active RFID       and Energy Harvesting &amp; Storage Europe 2011 in Munich in June 2011.
See the link (http://www.idtechex.com/events/presentations/energy-efficient-hardware-design-for-wsn-nodes-002850.asp).
Beneficiaries:     Three technical service providers, Yang's industrial collaborators, have       directly benefited from the underpinning research:     IDC (Intelligent Distributed Control) Limited, a Derby based SME, was a       pure project service provider for niche applications within manufacturing       and logistics and had no wireless development ability before collaborating       with Yang's group.
IDC recognised the benefits of the wireless sensor       networking technology being proposed by Yang which eliminated the need for       wires and cables between control modules, as a natural enhancement for the       Simplicon product range [5.1].
In collaboration with Yang, IDC       embarked on a 5 year programme in 2010 to develop a wireless platform for       industrial applications and have since produced over 20 products based on       ZigBee WSN (www.zig-bee.co.uk).
These products are now being used in Toyota, Toys R Us, Boots, and other       sites throughout Europe.
IDC could be considered the UK leader in ZigBee       based industrial applications.
Over the last 5 years IDC's annual turnover       is approximately &#163;1.0m per year with 80% of business generated on the       success of its ZigBee related projects.
Working with Yang's team IDC is       now jointly developing a low-cost wireless tracking system for industrial       applications in Stockyards, Warehousing and Manufacturing facilities with       several interested large end users which include Toyota Manufacturing,       DHL, Toys R Us and other European companies.
IDCs 5 year business plan,       based on WSNs is expected to deliver &#163;10M over the next 4 years.
Sure Technology, a Nottingham based SME, was a stand-alone security       products provider for domestic markets.
Participating in the research of       SafetyNET and IndeedNET led by Yang, Sure Technology now is able to       provide a high level of experience in networked interactive building       management systems and energy saving products for temperature and lighting       control.
See the link (http://technology.sure24.net/index.php?r=site/page&amp;view=partners)       Benefiting from these new capabilities Sure Technology now provides the       solutions in "remote communication of devices over wireless networks and       the Internet for: home automation, building automation, temperature and       facility management, building management and temperature monitoring",       which is far beyond their traditional business.
The company IP valued less       than &#163;100k before collaborating with Yang (2006) and now values more than       &#163;1m increased by 10 times.
The IP value increase is mainly contributed by       the development of their wireless technology based new products and       services [5.2].
