     Patients with genetic muscle channelopathies experience debilitating       episodes of muscle paralysis (periodic paralysis) and/or episodes of       severe muscle stiffness (myotonia or paramyotonia).
Many patients develop       significant disabling permanent muscle weakness over time.
Accurate       diagnosis is difficult as the conditions are rare, so affected patients       often experience a long delay of years before a correct diagnosis is       achieved and effective treatment instituted.
Unfortunately patients are       often misdiagnosed and sometimes the variable severity and intermittent       nature of some of the symptoms leads to the erroneous suggestion that the       symptoms are psychological.
Specialist clinical, electrophysiological and       molecular genetic assessment is required to make an accurate diagnosis.
As a result of our research, our centre was commissioned by NHS Highly       Specialised Services to provide the only diagnostic and treatment centre       in the UK for channelopathies.
We are directly funded by the Department of       Health to provide this service, which has received in excess of &#163;6m to       date.
Our clinical service offers a one-stop, same-day assessment in which       over 2,000 patients to date have been evaluated clinically and then       undergo detailed electrophysiological testing in collaboration with a       consultant neurophysiologist.
With informed consent, patients are then       offered detailed genetic testing to achieve a DNA-based diagnosis in the       DNA laboratory.
Patients are followed up to receive genetic counselling       and treatment.
Effective medications are available in accurately diagnosed       patients and often significantly improve quality of life [a].
We       are now the only UK national reference laboratory for genetic muscle       channelopathies, and our service is recognised by the European network for       rare disease diagnosis [b].
Our research has defined the best practice in treating patients with       these rare conditions, as recognised by the Specialised Commissioning       Group who say: "The work of the Queen Square NCST group collating and         the related research group has been at the forefront of developing the         international evidence base for best practice in diagnostics [DNA and         Electrophysiology] and patient management over the past 10 years" [c]     In terms of diagnostics, we have devised very efficient pathways       including novel electrophysiological protocols to aid rapid diagnosis and       gene testing selection [d].
We have performed over 8,000 genetic       tests and 1,000 electrophysiological tests on patients since the service       began.
Previously this patient group often did not receive an accurate       diagnosis or their conditions were labelled as psychogenic.
Often there       were unacceptably long delays in making the diagnosis and this has been       changed.
As described in section 2, our highly phenotyped genetically stratified       cohorts have allowed us to lead the first international randomised trial       of a treatment in a muscle channelopathy.
This identified an effective       treatment for muscle channelopathy patients and was published in JAMA 2012       with an accompanying full editorial entitled "Mexiletine for the treatment       of myotonia: a triumph for rare disease networks" [e].
It also       attracted much attention from patient groups and the scientific community       [f].
We now have successfully obtained exclusive Orphan drug       indication for mexiletine with the European Medicines Agency which is a       critical step in enabling and supporting the process for full marketing       authorisation and European licensing of mexiletine for this indication [g].
We support many patient organisations and provide national patient       education days.
Hanna is a member of the Medical Advisory Council for       Periodic Paralysis International, an international patient organisation       based in Canada [h].
He also acts as scientific advisor to the       Channelopathy Foundation, based in Switzerland [i].
At the Centre       for Neuromuscular Diseases we hold annual Patient Information Days on       muscle channelopathies; these include interactive patient talks,       opportunities to meet scientists and doctors and patient-led "ask the       experts" question sessions [i].
