     The research carried out by Dr Myers and high-speed craft (HSC) research       team (Professor       McMorris, Drs Dyson, Dobbins, University of Chichester (UoC); Dr Tom       Gunston, SIG-SCP;       Drs Sharon Holmes, Stuart King, QinetiQ Ltd), has achieved significant       impact across the       globe for individuals and organisations that use high speed marine craft.
The principal       pathways for impact are:            Uptake of research by civil and military organisations leading to         change in guidelines         and/or working practices including procurement and training;       Launch of commercial ventures drawing on the findings of the research;       Development and delivery of training materials based on outcomes from         the research         delivered to users/operators of high speed craft;       Improved boat operative experience and performance through reduced         exposure to         vibration and shock resulting from better designed craft and/or working         practices.
Creation and revision of international standards and guidance       Longer-term impact stemming from the UoC work arises from High Speed Craft       Human       Factors Engineering Design Guide written by Dobbins with two co-authors       from industry       (Ergonomist and Naval Architect) (ABCD-TR-08-01; 2008).
The guide was       funded by the MOD       and is issued by the ABCD Working Group and draws heavily on those       measurements made       by the HSC Team; it is open-access and has become the default Human       Factors reference       document of many nations (e.g.
UK, Canada, Australia, USA, Netherlands)       for high-speed       marine craft procurement.
The guide is also given as a recommended       reference source in a       number of guidance documents (e.g.
Department of Transport Small Passenger       Craft High       Speed Experience Rides Guidance).
The guide was also awarded the       Innovations Showcase       Award for `Vessel Design &amp; Construction' at Seawork 2008 the UKs       premier high speed craft       trade show.
The research also contributed to the formation of an       international committee (date)       to revise the whole-body vibration standard ISO 2631-5:2004, with HSC team       member Dr       Gunston representing the UK.
This was driven by the HSC group's research       highlighting the       current vibration evaluation standards inability to effectively report       those accelerations       experienced by users (Dobbins 2006; Gunston 2006; Dobbins 2008a,b; Myers       2012).
The       findings of the HSC group also contributed the setting up of working       groups by the MOD and       the RNLI to address how shock and vibration can be dealt with and how the       EU Physical       Agents (Vibration) Directive regulations might be met.
Members of the HSC       team (Drs Myers,       Dobbins, Gunston) continue to contribute to both these groups.
Furthermore, the published findings and accompanying technical reports       were used by the       Ministry of Defence (MOD) to help retrospectively justify the equipping in       2007 of the Royal       Marines' fleet of ORC with the same type of commercial suspension seats.
The move away       from the conventional fixed seat (unit cost ~&#163;100) to a suspension seat       (unit cost ~&#163;1,200)       represented a significant financial investment, with a minimum of eight       required per ORC in a       fleet of around 50 craft (representing an additional investment in excess       of &#163;4.5M).
Widespread dissemination of the research including evaluation of the       suspension seat       amongst the high speed craft/maritime/vibration industry/academic       community (see section 5)       created a context for the decision made by KNRM the Dutch equivalent to       the RNLI to fit the       same seat evaluated by Myers et al in their new NHN1816 lifeboat (12/13).
Incidentally, the       number of companies supplying suspension seats has risen dramatically from       around 5 when       the research commenced in 2005 to over 20 in 2013.
Commercial impacts and impacts arising from commercial deliver of         specialist training       The research enabled directly to the creation of two commercial ventures       STResearch and       FRC International.
The novel nature of those data collected by Myers and       colleagues       highlighted the need for further research and for the continued       dissemination of information to       educate end-users, managers, employers, legislators and procurers.
A       commercial       consultancy STResearch Ltd (www.str.eu.com),       was formed (in 2005) by one of the team       members Dr Dobbins to continue supporting the research need, supply       high-speed craft       Human Factors support and solutions for a number of government and       commercial clients in       the UK and overseas (US Navy, RNLI, Maritime Investigation Branch (MAIB),       MOD, RNLI).
Drs       Myers, Dobbins and Gunston on the invitation of the HSE presented to them       on the challenges       the maritime environment presents to users and those trying to enforce       legislation.
Similar       meetings were held over the period 2006-2008 with the MOD, RNLI and UK       Maritime       Coastguard Agency (MCA).
These meetings highlighted the need for this       information to be       disseminated more widely and were instrumental in the setting up FRC       International Ltd       ((formed 2010) (www.frc-int.com))       which Dr Dobbins is a Director along with John Haynes and       Jon Hill, the latter who worked closely with the Chi team before he       retired from the Royal       Marines, who deliver education and training courses to organisations       worldwide including the       Police Service of Northern Ireland, Canadian Navy, UK Environment Agency,       MCA, UK       Maritime Accident Investigation Branch reaching hundreds of individuals       across these       organisations (87 listed online).
Both of these companies make direct use       of the findings of the       University's research in this area and Dr Myers continues to contribute to       STR's consultancy       activity and the training given by FRC.
In addition, QinetiQ Ltd a world       leading defence       technology and security company (with 9000 employees worldwide) and       partner on the       EPSRC funded project have directly benefited through first hand access to       data and analysis       from the human factors research which they have subsequently utilised in       their operations, for       example in the demonstrator PASCAT landing craft developed for the MoD       (2010).
Change to training procedures and working practices       On the basis of the levels of fatigue and acceleration reported by the HSC       team the RNLI       amended their training operations to reduce their trainers' exposure; the       small training team is       responsible for training hundreds of RNLI volunteers.
It is highly       probable that the MOD's       adoption of a suspension seat along with the findings of the HSC team and       its dissemination       through academic conference and journal papers, lay articles, and industry       and government       briefings (Defence and Equipment Supplies, Health and safety Executive,       Maritime Coastguard       Agency etc.)
and its membership of the American, Australian, British,       Canadian and Dutch       (ABCD) Working group on Human Performance at Sea, have increased the       number of       organisations who have modified working practices or adopted shock       mitigation solutions for       their craft, although evidence has not been collected to support this       claim.
Benefits to end users of HSC in military, civil and leisure contexts       Evaluation of the benefits accrued by the end-users due to the changes in       working practices       and conditions arising directly out of primary engagement with the       research or mediated by       adherence to the high speed craft design guide is still underway.
Nevertheless, the       physiological data collected in the research show that those end users       whose craft or       practices/conditions have changed, i.e.
specialist military and civil       personnel in the UK and       overseas (see above for list of organisations) and non-professional       passengers (e.g.
thrill       rides) are now better protected from the reported acute and chronic       effects of repeated shocks       (Ensign et al., 2000; Hodgdon et al., 2003) increasing working life and       long-term wellbeing.
