     Nature of Impact: The beneficiaries of the research are mainly,       but not exclusively, professional bodies and practitioners in many       different fields.
First, there are the widely diffused challenges to         conventional wisdom about the consequences of auditing and risk       management, specifically the costs of bureaucratisation.
The research has       influenced policy debate in many fields not only in accounting and       auditing, but also in child care, higher education, medicine and       psychiatry), and there has been an uptake of its ideas in policy and       practice documents.
The terms `Audit Society' and `Audit Explosion',       coined by Power, have entered policy discourses, and Power (1) and Power       (3) have circulated in policy and regulatory contexts.
Second, the       research has contributed to practice reforms in performance       auditing in the UK, Canada and the Netherlands.
Points of diffusion of the       research into practice are very wide and mediated by other academics and       think tanks, especially in the health field where, for example, the       research was a reference point in a broad wave of criticism of `targets'       in the UK NHS.
Selected impacts on accounting and auditing practice:     In 2009, Power gave oral evidence to the Treasury Committee's inquiry       into the banking crisis.
He drew on ideas in Power (2) and the final       report refers extensively to his submission and oral testimony.
He is       named explicitly in a recommendation (para 243).
This was also the case       for his evidence to the House of Lords Select Committee on Economic       Affairs in 2010 dealing with auditor concentration (6).
This led directly to participation in discussions about audit report       reform at the Auditing Practices Board of the Financial Reporting Council       (FRC) and &#8212; via the FRC Reporting Lab &#8212; resulted in a new policy focus on       audit committee reporting which is ongoing.
Power was also an advisor to       the Department of Business Innovation and Skills (BIS) that drew on his       work in their audit reform proposals (7).
The work has also directly       shaped the reform of internal audit practices in the Pan-American Health       Organisation (8).
Jeremy Lonsdale, Director of Value-for-Money at the UK National Audit       Office (NAO) notes the influence of Power (2) in both the UK and the       Netherlands (also Frans Leeuw), stating: "The Audit Society has       been very influential in our thinking and in Treasury thinking.
I was       seconded to do Lord Sharman's Review of Audit and Accountability for       central government, which the Chief Secretary set up in 2000 and I know at       that time and in the subsequent discussions NAO had with Treasury several       ideas from the book shaped the agenda.
And in aspects of our practice they       had an influence."
He confirmed the continuing influence of this work on       practice development when Power delivered a seminar at the NAO in July       2010 (9).
It has also influenced public sector audit and evaluation reform       processes in Canada (10).
Power's impact on general regulatory debate in social work gave rise to a       full length feature on his work in Socionomen, a practitioner       magazine for social workers in Sweden.
Conversations with Eileen Munro as       she was preparing her review on child protection focused on how to restore       professional trust and her final report cites Power (2).
In addition, the       work is influencing an official investigation into education evaluation in       Sweden.
Power met the Swedish Education Minister on 25 January 2013 and       will be involved in the investigation via the Chair of the report, Leif       Lewin, who draws on Power's ideas (11).
In 2010, at the request of the French Ministry for Higher Education and       Research, Power participated in the design of an evaluation practice for       Institutes for Advanced Study in France, the outcome of which was the       creation of a system which avoided the worst 'Audit Society' side-effects.
Power also advised OFGEM on impact assessments (12).
Selected impacts on risk management practice:     Power advised the UK Financial Reporting Council as a member of the       advisory board of their Financial Reporting Lab and by providing input       into the reform of the Turnbull Guidance on risk management (new draft       guidance was published in November 2013).
Chris Hodge at FRC notes: "Our       discussions with you helped us to clarify what we were trying to achieve       and the final version was improved as a result."
At the practice level,       Richard Sykes (a partner in PriceWaterhouse Coopers) cites the value of       Power's contribution to their thought leadership in risk management (13).
Power (3) is cited in Minutes of Evidence to the House of Lords Select       Committee on Economic Affairs (13a).
Power disseminated ideas from the research via executive teaching on BP's       CFO Excellence programme in 2012 and 2013, leading to discussions within       the group risk function about BP's new risk management approach .
In 2011,       Power was invited to be an Honorary Fellow of the UK Institute of Risk       Management in recognition of his `considerable contribution to risk       management' which included influencing organisations as diverse as the       Railway Safety Standards Board and the Equality and Human rights       Commission (14).
Power (4) has also influenced the 2011 design of the UN       Principles on Business and Human Rights (14a).
The CARR research project `risk culture in financial organizations' is       on-going.
Power gave evidence to the Salz Review, an independent review of       Barclays' business practices, in April 2013 &#8212; his thinking influenced the       section on `complaints as a window on culture'.
This is an example of       impact of a research process, where the research itself is not yet       published (15).
Power (5) is on the reading list for Institute of Risk       Management professional examinations and Power (4) is discussed in the       CIMA study notes for professional examination in Management Accounting &#8212;       Risk and Control Strategy 2009 (16).
Why the impact matters: Auditing and risk management should       contribute to good performance by firms and their good governance.
The       underpinning research has addressed how transforming organisations to make       them `auditable' by the creation and expansion of systems and quantitative       measures of performance can lead to an illusion of control, at best, and       economic and social harm, at worst.
By addressing these problems, the       impact described above helps to improve the governance of firms.
