     Jefferys' recent research on politics and sport policy has contributed       towards debates over public policy surrounding the London 2012 Olympics       and its legacy by providing evidence-based intelligence on how to balance       investment in local and grassroots sport with investment in national       facilities and in developing top-level athletes.
Key users of the       research, pioneered in Sport and Politics in Modern Britain       (2012), `Britain and the Boycott of the 1980s Moscow Olympics', and       the policy-related papers stemming from it include politicians,       policymakers, civil servants, think tanks and policy-oriented public       bodies as well as the media and the general public.
Writing in the LSE         Review of Books, Daniel Burdsey described Sport and Politics       as `essential reading for those planning sports policy in Whitehall       today'.
Jefferys' paper on sport policy, presented to Whitehall officials at the       Department of Culture, Media and Sport in 2012 under the aegis of History       and Policy at King's College, University of London arose from his       short-listing by H&amp;P to be a consultant working in partnership with       the Cabinet Office.
According to the impact audit of the event, conducted       by Mel Porter, Public Affairs Manager at H&amp;P, all 12 civil servants at       DCMS who provided feedback on the presentation found the event to be       interesting, relevant to their work, a well-structured discussion and a       good use of their time.
Almost all agreed that there was       definitely/probably the right balance between history and policy.
Some       provided additional comments: `A very interesting talk, good to hear about       the history of sport policy, a rare opportunity', `Good historical       context...comparison to current policy...was drawn out in Q&amp;A...very       interesting and useful!
', `Really very interesting, thank you for       organising', and `Very knowledgeable speaker'.
75% were motivated to       attend by the relevance of the event to their current/future career.
All       said the event met all or most of their expectations and that they would       definitely or probably recommend the event to other people working in       their field.
A former DCMS civil servant, Mark Balcar, who was involved in       the Sports Think Tank (http://www.sportsthinktank.com),       passed Jefferys' paper on to colleagues and another DCMS civil servant       forwarded it to public affairs colleagues at Sport England.
An extended version of the paper, which focussed more directly on       post-2010 coalition sports policy, was published on the H&amp;P website       (`On your marks... formulating sport policy and Britain's Olympic Legacy'       (http://www.historyandpolicy.org/papers/policy-paper-133.html).
The paper was launched alongside Professor Jeffery's book Sport and         Politics at a breakfast discussion event at King's College, London       (July 2012) supported by Palgrave Macmillan, Plymouth University, and       History &amp; Policy.
Andy Reed, Director of the Sports Think Tank, Chair       of the Sport and Recreation Alliance and former MP for Loughborough,       chaired a panel discussion with award-winning journalist and author Mihir       Bose and Jefferys to an invited audience of policy- makers and opinion       formers, including representatives from DCMS, Sport England and the Youth       Sports Trust.
In a press release of Sports Think Tank and H&amp;P to       launch Sport and Politics, Read described the book as a `timely       study' which `provides the first exploration of the causes and       consequences of the increased interaction between sport and the state       since 1945'.
Reed continued, `this offers us a unique opportunity to       reflect on our rich and unique sporting heritage, build on the lessons of       the past and reassess sport's role in society.
It is time for the       government, those who lead the sports sector and companies that invest in       sport to openly debate these key issues and set a clear, long-term and       integrated strategy for sports policy in the coming decades.
This will be       the test of our true Olympic legacy.'
Jefferys' work in this area has spurred further publications and       intelligence requests, extending the reach of his research activity and       influence.
In addition to the extended policy paper for DCMS, Jefferys was       one of the first of a highly select group of historians invited to       contribute a paper on `Prime Ministers and the Olympic Games' for the       official No.
10 Downing Street website, which was tweeted twice by No.10       (which has a twitter feed of 2 million), and re-tweeted by H&amp;P (http://www.number10.gov.uk/history-and-tour/prime-ministers-and-the-olympic-games/).
A popular article `Going to the Games' appeared in BBC History         Magazine, 13/8 (August 2012), pp.
58-60 (circulation of 70,000) and       Jefferys provided a talk on the 1980 Olympic boycott for the BBC History       podcast (26 July 2012; average download of 100,000).
Finally, the       publication of Sport and Politics has led to Jefferys being       consulted by the BBC in the UK and Brazil (interview published on BBC       Brazil website which receives 7-8 million monthly visits); by Podium, a       government funded body, facilitating London 2012 legacy opportunities for       colleges, universities and students to engage with future sporting and       cultural mega-events both at home and overseas (www.podium.ac.uk);       and by the Sports Think Tank.
He is intending to work over the next couple       of years on a history of the British Olympic Association at a time when       plans to develop an Olympic museum on the London 2012 site come to       fruition.
