     Reach and significance of impact: number of Non-Medical Prescribers         and patients     Our research reports were published by the Department of Health (DH)       [5.11] and made available on their website [5.1 and 5.2].
The Executive       Summaries of our research reports have been downloaded 1698 times       [Research grant 1] and 6495 times [Research grant 2] from the University       website.
Working closely with the DH Policy Lead for NMP, our research       findings on the positive contribution of NMP to health care made a direct       impact on NMP legislation and NHS modernisation in England, providing key       evidential support for Government policy change [5.11].
As a result, the       number and range of health care professionals able to train as prescribers       has significantly increased, as well as the number of medicines that they       can prescribe.
Our research has helped extend the role and accountability       of the largest sector of the health care workforce such that by 2012,       19,000 nurses across England had qualified as Nurse Independent       Prescribers &#8212; up from only 6,600 in 2006.
Nurse prescribers are now       employed across approximately 93% of the 376 NHS Trusts in England, with       the majority prescribing for more than 11 patients per week, and a       significant minority (15%) prescribing for more than 50 patients per week       [5.2].
In 2013, the number of pharmacist prescribers had grown to 2000,       and the total number of items prescribed by Non-Medical Prescribers in       England had risen from 2.4 million (January &#8212; March 2008) to 4 million       (July &#8212; September 2011).
As a direct result of her research, Latter was invited to join a       Government Project Board, chaired by the Chief Health Professions Officer,       on allied health professions prescribing in 2009.
The Board's report [5.3]       cited her research as evidence that NMP training adequately prepared       nurses for practice and thus could be adapted for new prescriber       categories (e.g.
allied health professionals).
Our findings on the safety       and acceptability to patients of nurse and pharmacist prescribing were the       sole research evidence cited in DH consultation documents on extending       physiotherapist and podiatrist prescribing [5.4 and 5.5].
These national       consultations resulted in widespread support for extending prescribing by       physiotherapists and podiatrists and in July 2012, new prescribing powers,       enabling these groups to independently prescribe medicines, were       announced.
Our research was also the sole evidence cited in the       Government's consultation document on proposals to introduce prescribing       rights for paramedics [5.6].
Building on the research findings, the DH       announced in April 2012 that the list of medicines nurse and pharmacist       prescribers can prescribe will be expanded to include controlled drugs.
Impact on prescribing quality and efficiency     To ensure effective transfer into health care professional practice,       Latter et al presented preliminary findings at a workshop of key       stakeholders comprising 43 senior healthcare policy makers, managers and       commissioners influential in NMP policy and practice nationally [5.2].
Stakeholders corroborated the value of the study findings and identified       priorities for action; these included the development of a       cross-profession common competency framework for all prescribers [5.2].
This action has since been taken forward by the National Prescribing       Centre, culminating in the 2012 publication of a single competency       framework for all prescribers which is the national standard to       underpinning quality and safety in prescribing.
Following completion of       the 2010 study, Latter was invited by DH to present the results and       recommendations to the DH Non-Medical Prescribing Programme Board, chaired       by the Chief Nursing Officer, and including the Chief Pharmaceutical       Officer for England and the DH NMP Policy Lead [5.11].
Latter was also       invited to present findings to the Nurse Prescribing Advisory Group of the       British National Formulary in 2011 [5.11].
As a direct result of the insights gained from her research, Latter was       invited to join the NICE Concordance Guideline Development Group as an       expert peer reviewer.
The group's recommendations were the foundation for       NICE's clinical guideline 76 on Involving patients in decisions about         prescribed medicines and supporting adherence, published in 2009,       setting a clear template for how patient discussions about medicine are       conducted and assessed professionally.
A 2011 Nursing Times review provides evidence of the significance of       extending prescribing rights for nurses: NMP has benefited both the       nursing profession (through greater autonomy and job satisfaction) and       patients, for whom it means timely access to medicines and treatment and       reduced waiting times [5.7].
NMP has reduced the number of health       professionals that need to be involved in an episode of care, and economic       analysis of NMP [5.2] highlights the potential cost savings made by       shifting prescribing workload from doctors to nurses.
For example, the       cost of one hour of patient contact for a GP is &#163;127, compared to &#163;43 for       a practice nurse (PSSRU 2011).
These data highlight the efficiency and cost savings achieved through       expanding NMP and the resulting improvements in patient care.
The key changes in UK prescribing policy resulting from our research have       been widely reported across the national news media and more extensively       still in professional journals such as the Nursing Times, whose 300,000       monthly readers include nurses in the UK and abroad.
International Impact     Our research findings have been utilised internationally for policy and       practice.
Study results were cited as key international evidence in a       series of Australian Government Consultation Papers [5.8] recommending a       new national prescribing pathway to extend prescribing rights to the       268,000 registered nurses in Australia.
This represents a radical increase       from the current position in which nurse prescribing is limited to around       400 nurse practitioners.
With the UK now a global leader in NMP, our study       methods and evaluation criteria have been adopted internationally for       studies including: a national evaluation by the Netherlands Institute for       Health Services Research of nurse prescribing in the Netherlands (Kroezen       2013); an evaluation of diabetes nurse specialist prescribing for the New       Zealand Society for the Study of Diabetes in New Zealand [5.9]; a survey       of pharmacist prescribing in Canada (Guirguis et al 2012); and Drennan et       al's (2009) Health Services Executive funded national evaluation of nurse       and midwife prescribing in Ireland [5.10].
Studies' results have led to       further impact: for example, the study of nurse prescribing in New Zealand       has stimulated national legislation to enable further roll-out of nurse       prescribing to other nurses; in Ireland, the number of registered nurse       prescribers in 2009 in Drennan's et al's national evaluation was 57; this       had risen to 453 in June 2012.
Our research findings are also cited in       influential international reviews of NMP policy and practice       (International Council of Nurses 2009; Kroezen et al 2011).
Southampton-led research on NMP has provided unique evidence to the       Government that has significantly influenced national policy on expanding       NMP, resulting in higher quality patient care and improved health service       efficiency.
Our research has informed international policy on NMP and       studies drawing on our methods and results have contributed to the       expansion of prescribing authority to a greater number of nurses and       pharmacists around the world, with an ability to prescribe a greater range       of medicines for patients.
