     Our research has had direct impacts on policy stipulating standards of       service to family members during and after solid organ and multi tissue       donation, the practice of health care professionals and care staff, the       care and experience of newly bereaved families in the context of organ or       tissue donation, and is contributing to raising public awareness of tissue       donation in particular.
Impact on policy       In 2012, in the light of findings from studies 4 and 5, Long-Sutehall was       part of a team that carried out a process evaluation of the current       documentation underpinning the consent process in both organ and tissue       donation for NHS BT.
The evaluation recommended that `core minimal'       information be provided to family members when approached about tissue       donation, and information that is not essential be moved to other modes of       communication, such as Family Information Leaflets (FILs) and websites.
Both NHS BT and the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) accepted proposed       changes.
Subsequent to this decision, Long-Sutehall led on the design of       the FILs which have been distributed to family members as of July 2013       (expected over 2,200 family members per year) [5.1a/b, 5.2].
Findings from       study 2 were cited in the guideline on Organ donation for         transplantation, issued by the National Institute for Health and       Care Excellence (NICE) in 2011.
The aim of this guideline is to improve       donor identification and consent rates for deceased organ donation [5.3].
The House of Lords European Union Committee published its report on Increasing         the supply of donor organs within the European Union in July 2008.
The report quotes Sque and Long-Sutehall's witness statements to the       Committee, based on their research, on no fewer than 12 occasions [5.4].
Impact on Practice       As a result of her research expertise, NHS BT asked Long-Sutehall to       participate in updating the Donor Family Care Policy, and associated       Management protocol; these documents stipulate the required practice for       Specialist Nurses in Organ Donation [SN-OD] when in contact with potential       donor families.
The revised documentation was completed in 2011,       reflecting findings from studies 1-3 [5.5].
Pilot testing of a new       specialist family approach format developed by Long-Sutehall using       findings from studies 4 and 5 has been demonstrated to increase donation.
It has now been implemented into practice.
In 2010, Long-Sutehall       presented the findings from study 3 to the official advisory committee on       ethical, legal and psychosocial aspects of organ donation and       transplantation (ELPAT) of the European Society for Organ Transplantation       (ESOT) comprising 100 practitioners and researchers from 25 European       member states [5.6].
The incorporation of findings from studies 1-3 into       the Donor Family Care Policy 2011 (see above) has led to demonstrable       benefits for family members of potential donors.
For example, since 2008       approximately 3,500 families have received a contact card from the       donation team on the first anniversary of their relative's donation, which       was a recommendation of the research.
Families and support organisations       (British Organ Donor Society and Donor Family Care Network) have       acknowledged the importance of this contact [5.7].
As a result of findings       from studies 4 and 5, the Donor Assessment Form for NHS BT's Tissue       Services was re-designed in March 2013, reducing the number of questions       in line with families' expressed needs and wishes [5.8].
Improved public and practitioner awareness       To address the findings from studies 4 and 5, that family members were not       being `alerted' to the possibility of tissue donation by health care       professionals before a death occurred, the South Central Strategic Health       Authority (SHA) made an online resource available in 2010 for the public       and for health professionals [5.6].
Guidance to Care Home care staff       within the South Central region was also developed [5.9].
A recommendation       of study 4 was that a Donor Family Advisory Committee should be       established by NHS BT's Tissue Services so that new initiatives (e.g.
marketing strategies, information resources) aimed at increasing public       awareness of the need for tissue donation, are presented to this group for       discussion and review [5.10].
