     Every year about 150,000 people in the UK have a stroke and approximately       one-third require rehabilitation to help them to recover movement and       independence.
Treatment of stroke consumes 5% of the NHS budget.
More       people are now surviving and living longer following stroke, putting       increasing strain on NHS resources.
Traditional, one-to-one rehabilitation       is expensive; there is therefore great practitioner and government       interest in finding more effective and less labour-intensive therapies.
Our research has developed significant new approaches to stroke       rehabilitation that increase its effectiveness and reduce the need for       practitioner-led therapy.
These approaches are now used internationally       and have been adopted as part of the training for rehabilitation       practitioners.
The technologies have been commercialised generating sales       world- wide.
Impact on health     Our research has been highly influential in making Functional Electrical       Stimulation (FES) developed by Burridge et al available and routinely       practised in over 70 countries.
The National Institute of Health and Care       Excellence (NICE) approved the use of FES for drop-foot of neurological       origin in 2010 [5.1], citing evidence from our clinical trial and       subsequent research.
The Royal College of Physicians' (RCP) guidelines       (September 2012) for stroke [5.2] recommends its clinical use, as does the       International Review of Evidenced-Based Research in Stroke Rehabilitation       (EBRSR), a trusted resource for clinicians internationally [5.3], which       concludes: `There is strong (Level 1a) evidence that FES treatment       improves upper extremity function in acute stroke'.
In 2006 Burridge was       named Alfred Mann Foundation Scientist of the Year for her research into       FES for upper-limb function [5.4].
Our research into robot therapy combined with FES [5.5, 5.6], a new       therapy that enables supported repetitive motor practice without       one-to-one therapist input, has benefited from collaboration with       world-leading rehabilitation robotics company, Hocoma [5.7], where       Burridge is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board.
Both Hughes and       Burridge are partners in the EU-funded COST Action on Robotics for       Neurorehabilitation, and Southampton hosted the first annual two-day COST       conference, attracting over 150 delegates and seven commercial sponsors.
These research and dissemination activities have been highly influential       in advancing the field and translating useful technologies into clinical       practice for improved provision of neurological rehabilitation.
Other outputs of the team's research into ways to facilitate the adoption       of new technologies, driven by the findings of our NIHR Research Programme       research [5.8], include the LifeCIT Online web resource [5.9].
The site,       which went live in 2012, supports and motivates patients undergoing       upper-limb rehabilitation at home and provides a telemedicine link to       family, friends and clinicians.
Impact on commerce and the economy     FES devices have been successfully commercialized.
The largest UK       manufacturer, Odstock Medical Limited (OML) [5.10] reports over 16,000       sales.
In the US the stimulator is sold by Bioness [5.11] &#8212; a spin-off       from the Alfred Mann Foundation (AMF) &#8212; where Burridge has acted as       scientific advisor.
They report 85,000 patients on their database using       their devices.
Our published work on patient usability problems with       stimulators that used surface electrodes and wired sensors led to       Burridge's collaboration with Aalborg University in Denmark and the       development of an implanted stimulator [5.12], the ActiGait, which is now       marketed by the world's largest manufacturer and distributor of orthotic       and prosthetic devices, Otto Bock Healthcare [5.13].
The device is now CE       marked and beginning to be used clinically across Europe.
Our research team has been instrumental in setting up the International       Industry Society in Advanced Rehabilitation Technology (IISART) group of       manufacturers, influencing the design, commercialization and clinical       adoption of rehabilitation robotics.
Hughes is a steering committee member       and Burridge is the IFESS representative on the Board of Directors.
Impact on practitioner education     FES Education: Publication of the clinical trial results led to       demand for training courses in FES.
Burridge led the design and provision       of training courses and set-up over 12 satellite clinics in NHS hospitals.
Over 2,522 therapists in 14 countries have now been trained in using FES       (e.g.
Burridge has run courses in Saudi Arabia and The Netherlands) and it       is included in UK and international undergraduate and postgraduate       physiotherapy and Medical Physics and Biomedical engineering programmes.
The International Functional Electrical Stimulation Society (IFESS), of       which Burridge is currently President [5.14], and the IFESS UK and       Republic of Ireland Chapter, which Burridge launched in 2008, host       workshops to train therapists and other clinical and non-clinical       rehabilitation specialists in FES during their annual Conferences.
International post graduate multidisciplinary education: In 2012       Southampton's reputation for rehabilitation technology research,       commercialization and translation into clinical practice enabled the team       to secure funding of &#8364;518k through the EU Erasmus Lifelong Learning       Programme to develop a European MSc Programme in Advanced Rehabilitation       Technologies (ART) [5.16].
The collaborative programme, led by the       Southampton team, involves 11 universities in eight EU countries and is       pivotal to advancement of the field.
The MSc ART is multi-disciplinary,       providing appropriate courses for clinicians, engineers, commercial       developers and scientists and will utilise innovative on-line learning       technologies.
Critically, it will provide a shared learning environment       for students from academic, clinical and industrial backgrounds to       significantly advance the clinical use, research and commercialisation of       rehabilitation technologies.
