     The overall beneficiary of Southampton's underpinning research on       photonic quasi-crystals and their applications has been Luxtaltek       Corporation [5.1], a leading global manufacturer of photonic crystal LED       devices.
The process of Research leading to Impact     As a direct result of the Southampton research, spinout company       Mesophotonics Ltd. successfully developed a range of products that       incorporated photonic crystals into LEDs.
These products offered an       increased brightness of ~15% on other LEDs, which gave them a significant       competitive advantage.
In April 2008, this arm of Mesophotonics' business       and the company's photonic crystal intellectual property (IP) were       acquired by Luxtaltek Corporation, a Taiwanese LED manufacturer [5.2].
Economic Impact     Following its acquisition of the Mesophotonics IP, Luxtaltek announced it       would shift its focus to manufacturing high-brightness LEDs using the       photonic crystal IP to increase the production and brightness of its LED       chips.
This is a clear indication of economic impact where a business         has adopted a new technology through acquisition of IP that came       from research on photonic crystals for improving the efficiency of optical       devices.
Luxtaltek expanded the manufacturing capacity of its Chuan Factory with       new chip fabrication facilities [5.3] indicating the improvement of         the performance of the business through introduction of new,       photonic crystal LEDs, products.
To acquire and support this new activity Luxtaltek invested approximately       &#163;10m.
Consultancy to lead Luxtaltek's research, development and       implementation of photonics-crystals in LED epitaxy is provided by Dr       Martin Charlton.
The involvement of Dr Martin Charlton indicates that       a new technology was adopted through provision of consultancy that drew       on his research.
Evidence of economic impact     LuxtalTek now manufactures and supplies LED chips and crystalline grains,       used in digital displays, traffic signs, household electrical appliance       and automobile products all over the world [5.4].
In 2009 UniLite reported       Luxtaltek's monthly production capacity of 550m blue LED chips and 1.5       billion LED chips for outdoor-display use.
In the period 2008-2012,       Luxtaltek made total profits of &#163;35 million on LEDs with photonic       quasi-crystals [5.5].
Luxtaltek is currently employing more than 300       people in its photonic crystal LEDs production facilities [5.6].
Impact on the environment     By influencing the business strategy of one of the world's LED       manufacturers, the research has also contributed to an international move       towards more energy efficient lighting.
LEDs hold multiple advantages over       incandescent energy sources, notably lower energy consumption, smaller       size and longer lifetimes, and are widely used in high-efficiency lighting       applications.
The US Department of Energy advocates the use of LEDs.
It       says on its website: "Widespread use of LED lighting has the greatest       potential impact on energy savings in the United States.
By 2027,       widespread use of LEDs could save 348TWh ... of electricity: this is the       equivalent of the annual electrical output of 44 large electric power       plants (1000 megawatts each) and a total savings of more than US$30       billion at today's electricity prices."
[5.7]
