     Research by the University of Southampton's Astronomy Group has gone       beyond solving galactic riddles, radically improving the capability of       security agencies to detect dirty bomb threats and contributing to tighter       safety procedures in the nuclear industry.
Responding to US government calls for technology that could be used at       ports to detect suspect radioactive materials, spin-out company Symetrica       [5.1] set out to adapt the Southampton team's original gamma-ray detector,       which had performed successfully in space exploration.
Existing detection       systems, housed in `portals', were unable to discriminate between       different threat and natural radiation sources.
Symetrica developed its       original gamma-ray detector &#8212; its spectroscopic capabilities enable it to       distinguish different radiation sources and accurately identify threat       materials hidden in heavily shielded containers &#8212; to make a system that       could be used in a portal and in a handheld detector as a second layer of       surveillance.
In 2006 Symetrica partnered with Smiths Detection, a world-leading       provider of detection systems for X-rays, explosives and traces of       radioactive materials, which led to a $222m contract from the US       Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Domestic Nuclear Detection Office       (DNDO) to develop next-generation radiation detection and identification       systems.
This move was crucial in giving Symetrica access to the key US       government market.
In September 2008 Smiths Detection announced the launch       of the partnership's High Performance Radioisotope Identifier (HPRID), a       next-generation handheld device for detecting and identifying highly       enriched uranium, plutonium and other radioactive materials.
A choice of       either a NaI or LaBr3 crystal and a neutron detector identify       and analyse the specific potential threat.
The HPRID was based on       Symetrica's original Discovery&#8482; technology for isotope detection and       identification.
The collaboration between Symetrica and Smiths led to further success in       2011 when their RadSeeker handheld radioisotope identifier, which       superseded the HPRID, was approved by the DHS's DNDO as its primary       radiological handheld detector device [5.2, 5.3] to help port and border       personnel evaluate cargo, containers and vehicles as part of the US       government's counter-terrorism efforts.
Smiths received an initial production order for $4.5m in May 2011, built       around Symetrica's key isotope identification and spectrum stabilisation       technologies employed in this device.
In 2012, the DHS announced the       purchase of RadSeeker DL instruments for $8.3m.
As a result of this       decision, Symetrica's technology was deployed by the Honolulu Emergency       Services Department, through US Government grant funding, to screen       tsunami debris as it reached Hawaii in the aftermath of the Fukushima       disaster [5.4].
Symetrica has grown into an international company with 26 employees in       the UK and the USA &#8212; a number that is expected to grow by 30% in 2013-2014       with RadSeeker entering full production.
Its forecast turnover is &#163;10m.
Symetrica Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Symetrica Ltd, was founded in       the USA, with a manufacturing and testing facility in Maynard, MA.
Symetrica has a strong R&amp;D programme in the UK itself, and has funded       PhD studentships at the Universities of Southampton and Surrey.
It has       also successfully bid for more than &#163;100k of DTI/EPSRC funding on the       basis of collaborative research with the University of Southampton [5.5,       5.6].
Symetrica's shift in market focus from space to security is the key to       its current success and is attributable to a decision taken by commercial       advisers at SETsquared, an organisation that supports spin-outs from the       five universities of Southampton, Exeter, Bristol, Bath and Surrey.
SETsquared matched the Southampton astronomy team with a mentor, Heddwyn       Davies, now the chief executive of Symetrica, who targeted the security       sector as Symetrica's primary market.
Symetrica's Homeland Security portfolio now includes scalable, 3He-free       neutron detectors, inexpensive Radiation Portal Monitors (RPMs) that can       reduce nuisance alarms alarm rates during cargo screening and RPMs       equipped with crystal spectrometers that provide a greatly enhanced       isotope-identification capability.
With all three of these technologies       entered into the European Illicit Trafficking Radiation Assessment Program       (ITRAP+10), Symetrica's footprint on the Homeland Security Market has       significantly increased.
A prototype portal monitor, trialled at the Port       of Felixstowe, demonstrated its effectiveness in distinguishing naturally       occurring radioactive materials from potential threat materials.
The trial       system reduced the number of manual secondary inspections of cargo by       customs personnel at the port by ~80%.
Already partnered with Smith's detection, Symetrica is now in discussions       with two other market-leading prime contractors who wish to use their       technology.
The story behind the Symetrica spin-out was highlighted as an example of       best practice by The Engineer magazine in 2011 [5.7], and in       February 2012 the Duke of York visited Symetrica's headquarters at the       University's Science Park, to learn how its technology is winning export       sales for the UK [5.8].
Symetrica continues to be research-active and has filed 15 patents since       its launch.
There is a programme of continued collaboration between the       School of Physics and Astronomy and Symetrica in the field of detector       development.
Funded studentships, supervised by Bird, were completed in       2009 and 2011 and the findings fed into products now offered by Symetrica.
The first student (Dr C Burt) carried out the initial development for       large area PVT detectors to act as low-cost replacements for traditional       scintillation counters.
The second student (Dr M Foster) worked on       extending these detectors in the search for a replacement for Helium-3       neutron detectors and is now a Symetrica employee in their research       department.
Both these developments are now marketed as components within       the Symetrica Radiation Portal Monitor (RPM) range, which offer a &gt;75%       nuisance alarm reduction and improved isotope identification capability       compared to other available systems.
