     The substantial international effort that has led to the `birth' of       commercially available ytterbium-doped       silica fibre light sources for materials processing and nonlinear optics       was triggered by       Tropper and Hanna's research.
The CEO of Fianium Ltd, an ultrafast fibre       laser company, states       that "published papers and many international conference presentations         delivered by Professor         Tropper and members of her group have not only helped stimulate         significant world-wide interest         in further scientific study of capabilities and limitations of fiber         amplifiers, but have also given         impetus to commercialization of ytterbium-doped fiber lasers and         amplifiers, especially in the area         of ultrafast optics" [5.1].
Anatoly Grudinin, formerly a       Professor at Southampton, founded this       local Hamble-based company that has won two Queen's Awards for Enterprise       within the past 4       years [5.2].
Anatoly records that "Fianium Ltd was formed in         2003 with a sole objective to         commercialize ultrafast fiber lasers based primarily on ytterbium-doped         fibers and the study         carried out by Professor Tropper's group has played a significant role         in successful development         of Fianium's products, ranging from picosecond and femtosecond high         power fiber lasers for         material processing to novel and spectacular supercontinuum fiber         lasers, which find applications         in bio-medicine and metrology.
We estimate that since 2008 the installed base of Fianium's fiber         laser is approximately 1,000         units worldwide and this follows directly from pioneering research         conducted by Professor         Tropper and colleagues.
With our current devices being priced at between         &#163;12,000 and &#163;80,000,         this number of sales represents a significant impact on the commercial         development of the         ultrafast fiber laser market."
[5.1]     Products from Fianium include mode-locked ytterbium silica fibre lasers       delivering trains of       picosecond and femtosecond optical pulses, ytterbium fibre power       amplifers, and supercontinuum       sources of intense white light in a spatially coherent beam that can be       fibre-delivered.
The       supercontinuum is generated by launching the intense infrared pulse beam       from a fibre source       into highly nonlinear `holey fibre', where its spectrum becomes massively       broadened [5.2].
The       company's success in penetrating the markets for material processing and       marking led to Fianium       winning the Queen's Award for Enterprise (International Trade) in 2009 [5.3],       following sustained       growth of 70% year on year.
Fianium has since opened new facilities in the       USA (2009) and       China (2010) with new distribution networks established since 2009 in       India, Korea, Russia, Israel       and Sweden.
In 2012 Fianium was awarded a second Queen's Award for       Enterprise (Innovation)       in recognition of its development of "WhiteLase" Supercontinuum Fibre       lasers, which provide a       source of white light several million times the brightness of the sun [5.4].
It is specifically the       beam quality and power-handling capability of ytterbium fibre that make it       possible to realize such       a source in a rugged turn-key form, usable by non-specialists.
End-users       purchase these       systems for applications that include illumination for keyhole surgery,       and biomedical imaging       techniques such as optical coherence tomography [5.5].
The other commercially important class of ytterbium fibre laser is the       continuous-wave (i.e.
not       pulsed) kilowatt-power device integrated into materials processing systems       destined for a       manufacturing environment.
Industrial lasers account for 25% of a laser       market estimated to       generate global revenue of $8.62 billion in 2013 [5.6, p 41].
Within this sector the high-power       fibre laser represents a "disruptive technology", especially for sheet       metal cutting, capturing in       2012 more than 20% of a market that in 2007 had been entirely dominated by       carbon dioxide       lasers [5.6, p 42].
The leading supplier of high-power fibre       systems, IPG Photonics of Oxford       Massachusetts USA, was ranked 9th in Fortune Magazine's list of       fastest-growing companies in       2012, with a three- year-average annual revenue growth of 37% [5.6 p         40].
(Note that in the       business literature, 'fiber laser' now implicitly means 'ytterbium fibre       laser'.)
Beneficiaries of the       technology include car manufacturers making safer vehicles from new       materials that cannot be       conventionally machined; aerospace companies enabled to reduce the weight       and aerodynamic       drag of aircraft, and medical component manufacturers who exploit the       spatial precision and       contact-free nature of laser machining in the production of stents,       pacemakers and other life-saving devices.
Closer to home, another Southampton spin-off company has benefitted from       the local heritage of       Tropper and Hanna's research to stake out a position in the high-power       fibre market.
SPI Lasers       (SPIL) was originally established to exploit Southampton-developed       erbium-doped fibre       technology in the heady era of the telecoms bubble.
When the bubble burst,       the business was       forced to refocus, and in 2002 switched strategies to concentrate on the       design and production of       ytterbium fibre lasers for manufacturing.
In 2008 the German machine tool       and disc laser       specialist Trumpf acquired SPIL for &#163;27.8 million, desiring a foothold in       the industrial fibre laser       market [5.7].
In 2008 SPI Lasers employed 170 people with a global       turnover of approximately       &#163;15m per annum [5.8].
It now employs over 250 people with an       annual turnover of $50m [5.9].
