     The process (from research to impact)     The spin-out company Covesion was itself spun out from a parent company,       Stratophase (another spin-out of the University started 2003), in 2009, to       better focus on research and development of its nonlinear optical       materials product line [5.1].
Following the first sales of PPLN to       GEC-Marconi, PPLN research has developed into a successful commercial       venture since the formation of the separate company Covesion.
With fresh       venture capital investment, Covesion developed new Intellectual Property       around poling of MgO-doped PPLN for high power applications, technology       that had been pioneered at Southampton.
At its inception Covesion       comprised only the two former Stratophase staff members working on PPLN.
Since then it has created five high-tech jobs and achieved sales worth       &#163;2.1million over three years, 95 per cent of these sales being to overseas       customers [5.2, 5.3].
Economic impact     Covesion customers include some of the world's most successful companies       and prestigious research institutes, including some University-based       former PPLN research groups, not all of which can be named explicitly       here, for reasons of confidentiality, but span the areas of defence,       communications, laser manufacturing and medicine.
New business has         therefore been created.
The list includes major corporations such as       [text removed for publication].
[5.2].
From recent measurements of the       performance of these nonlinear engineered crystals, where 45W of green       light has been generated from an input near-infrared laser beam,       [reported by Stanford University, in 2012 [5.4] it is clear that       high-power lasers can now be built in a far more cost-effective manner       using Covesion components, and such impressive results have led to further       patent activity [5.5].
Another area that demonstrates economic impact relates to the use       of these engineered crystals in laser projection systems for presentations       and displays that have brighter, clearer colours but which use less energy       than conventional light bulb-based units, and therefore represents an       activity that has an impact on the environment also (management of         energy).
Consumer demand in this area is growing rapidly, as       products are marketed for home cinema, desktop projectors and       rear-projection.
Future opportunities are projectors integrated into       mobile phones and laptops, as well as use in medical screening and aero       defence equipment.
Covesion has entered into a license agreement and       technology transfer programme with a leading projector company, [text       removed for publication].
[5.2].
The final claim under economic impact is that the crystals sold by       Covesion are essential parts of new laser systems and applications, which       has a significant value to global trade.
The crystals are integrated into       high-end products which are sold by Covesion customers, so the leverage       effect is considerable, and vital to the success of these companies.
The       company's own analysis of sales of these systems and the volume of       products shipped suggests that the total worldwide market value of       Covesion-enabled commerce is greater than US$25m per year (hence US$100m       since 2009) [5.2].
A ready example concerns Covesion products that are       used in short-pulse fibre lasers which are sold by at least three       manufacturers.
Publicised users to date include Oclaro Inc., one of the       world's largest suppliers of optical communications equipment, the       world-leading universities Harvard and Stanford and leading governmental       research organisations such as NASA.
Health Impacts     Other key applications for Covesion products lay in the area of medical       imaging, where 2-photon fluorescence microscopy that uses Covesion       crystals enables imaging of living tissue, an area of immediate concern       for real-time medical diagnostics.
Covesion have also played a key role in       the consortium working on the EU-funded CROSS TRAP (Coherently-enhanced       Raman One-beam Standoff Spectroscopic Tracing of Airborne Pollutants)       project [5.6], which addresses the development of a novel laser remote       sensing technique for probing air at a distance for hazards such as       biochemicals, bacterial threats and explosive materials.
Both of these       areas fall under the heading of new diagnostics for medical         technologies.
A final area which falls under the heading of quality of life impact,       concerns the impact on society through provision of essential components       in systems that protect the public and armed forces of several nations &#8212; preventing future loss of life.
Under UK export licenses, Covesion       crystals are used as wavelength conversion components in laser       countermeasure systems on over 90 commercial aircraft [5.2].
These involve       directing laser beams towards an approaching missile, causing it to veer       off course.
[text removed for publication].
[5.7].
In conclusion, for the sake of completeness, a reference has been       included that describes global impact from the technical viewpoint, which       provides a list of publications from Covesion customers [5.8].
