     The process: from research to impact     ORC research has led to the development of a new generation of a highly       efficient and highly practical laser technology that has revolutionised       areas of industrial material processing, the development of specialist       components for high-end industries (e.g.
aviation and defence) and an       array of new medical devices and procedures.
It is also directly       responsible for the commercial success and growth of a major spin-out       company SPI Lasers Ltd (SPIL) [5.1].
SPIL (originally Southampton Photonics Inc, formed in 2000) was valued at       &#163;40 million when it was floated on the Alternative Investment Market in       2005 [5.2].
In 2008 it was bought by Trumpf, one of the world largest       suppliers of industrial laser processing systems, by which time it had       grown to be the second largest fibre laser company in the world [5.3].
Economic Impacts     SPIL's research and investment relationship with ORC grew under Trumpf.
SPIL typically sponsors around &#163;750k per-annum of research in fibre lasers       at the ORC and researchers there have worked on a number of joint       Technology Strategy Board (TSB)/EU funded projects with them.
These       projects resulted in the development of new products.
For example, under       the TSB SMARTLASER project (2009-2012) several new generations of pulsed       laser product were developed for product marking applications, enabling       more information to be put into smaller areas and at higher speeds.
The       TSB SMARTLASER products now account for 75% of SPIL's pulsed laser sales       and have secured their market leading position in this important market       segment.
SPIL's estimated annual turnover currently stands at &#163;40 million       [5.4].
Since 2008 SPIL has expanded from 150 to in excess of 250 employees - more than 20 have been ORC PhD graduates [5.4].
While, for commercial reasons, details of specific companies supplied       with SPIL fibre lasers since 2008 are not in the public domain, downstream       beneficiaries include car manufacturers whose production processes now       rely on laser-based cutting and welding processing to produce stronger,       safer vehicles; aerospace companies such as BAE Systems who use laser       machining, welding and polishing to produce planes of reduced weight and       aerodynamic drag [5.4]; food and consumer goods manufacturers who mark       their products with fibre lasers; and, medical component manufacturers who       exploit the excellent beam quality and high powers to produce precise       devices such as stents (implants used in heart surgery) thus saving lives.
As a result of research carried out by the ORC, there has been a 30%       increase in the number of surgical stents manufactured with fibre lasers,       worldwide.
[5.4]     For completeness it should be noted that a second Fibre Laser spin-out       company, Fianium Ltd, was set up in 2003 by Anatoly Grudinin (ORC       Professor 1993-2003), who was also initially involved in the formation of       SPIL.
From around 20 employees in 2008 Fianium has grown to a current       workforce of 50.
The activities of Fianium are the subject of a separate       case study.
Impact on Practitioners and Professional Services     ORC research has been disseminated widely to academia and industry       through international conferences helping to ensure rapid commercial       adoption of the technology.
Examples include: the Association of Laser       Users (AILU) Medical Group Meeting (Edinburgh, 27/08/08) where Richardson       presented findings regarding the fibre MOPA approach to an audience of 150       laser-product manufacturers, suppliers and consultancies; and The       International Laser Applications Symposium (March 2013) where Payne gave a       plenary talk to 200 including representatives from Rolls Royce and       Micrometrics [5.5].
Impact on Society and public engagement     The ORC's stand at the 2008 Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition (1-4       July, London) generated enormous public interest and engagement in this       new fibre laser technology.
12,500 members of the public (including 2,600       schoolchildren) were given the opportunity to speak directly to ORC       researchers about fibre lasers and how they are being exploited in a range       of applications from imaging molecules to high precision cutting metals.
Visitors received personalised drinks mats created with an ORC-developed       laser [5.6].
In 2013 Payne received a Knighthood for services to photonics research       and applications.
Other recent high profile awards for Payne include the       Marconi Prize recognising advancements in communications in 2008 (past       winners include Tim Berners Lee for the World Wide Web, Lawrence E Page       and Sergey Brin for the development of Google) - and the AILU Award for       "an outstanding contribution to the industrial use of lasers in the UK" in       2010.
[5.7]
