     The research project was selected as the case study for the AHRC's       website to illustrate       excellence in the public engagement with the humanities (1).
As Nobel       Prize winner Eric Kandel       acknowledged in his 2012 publication on Vienna 1900, The Age of         Insight, `Madness and       Modernity' re-wrote a significant period in modern European history (2).
Responses to the research       as presented through the exhibitions were captured primarily in reviews       (93 in the case of the       London exhibition, with a circulation of 55,975,642 people; 126 in the       case of the Vienna exhibition)       and visitor book comments.
The feedback highlighted the project's       generation of new knowledge.
For example, in an article for The Lancet, Joanna Bourke declared       the London exhibition `a "must       see"... the exhibits have been carefully chosen, and many appear in the UK       for the first time' (3).
Both exhibitions provided visitors with the opportunity to engage with       work that was completely       new, enriching their lives.
As one visitor commented: `This exhibition is       a knock out...
The       discovery of Raedler and Frau St. is gold indeed.
And so much Egon Schiele       too!
I am gratified       beyond belief.'
40,320 people, including mental health service users and       professionals, visited the       London exhibition.
As one doctor working in psychological medicine       remarked: `It's just so       wonderful.
I have a real emotional high' (4).
The Governor of The Retreat,       a centre for those with       mental health needs in York, was also struck, asking for copies of the       exhibition labels: `because of       parallels with late 18th-century developments in the treatment       of mental illness by Quakers' (4).
The       London exhibition was paired with another devoted to a contemporary artist       who exhibited       drawings reflecting upon her experience as a NHS patient.
The dialogue       between our look back at       how society used to engage with the mentally ill in `Madness and       Modernity', and how society       continues to engage with it 100 years on in `Bobby Baker's Diary Drawings:       Mental Illness and Me,       1997-2008', was very much a part of how the Wellcome presented the       research.
This was       acknowledged in the public discourse.
In Nature magazine, one       writer reflected: `Fears of living in a       modern city created anxieties that resonate today, raising questions about       our attitudes to mental       illness and its treatment.'
(5) In preparing for the exhibition, Wellcome       staff had guidance on how to       treat people with mental health problems in anticipation of the number of       people with experiences       of mental health issues that would be attracted to the exhibition.
The       staff used elements of `Open       to All', a training programme for gallery staff produced by the Department       of Health.
But it was not       only the lives of exhibition staff and visitors that were enriched by the       project: radio and blog       coverage engaged audiences unable to visit London or Vienna.
ABC Radio       Australia devoted a       programme on the exhibition for their series `All in the Mind', broadcast       on 25 July 2009 (6);       Blackshaw's interview was used to develop a blog for their listeners.
The       Wellcome produced a       film on the making of the exhibition which was uploaded on to their site       and to You Tube: since       appearing in 2009 the film has had 2,745 hits (7).
In terms of the ongoing enrichment of cultural life, the statement issued       by the Wellcome on the       project highlighted `how it helped greatly to increase the breadth of       Wellcome Collection's       audience... cementing our reputation for mounting the kind of intelligent       and accessible       interdisciplinary exhibitions which have put us on the cultural map' (8).
The impact of the Wellcome       exhibition is also evident in collecting and display endeavours.
For       example, the work of Raedler, a       schizophrenic, was shown to audiences in the UK for the first time in       `Madness and Modernity'; on       closing, every drawing by Raedler exhibited was purchased by James Brett       for his new public arts       space `The Museum of Everything' in London, devoted to self-taught artists       living `outside modern       society'.
In a broader sense, the exhibition had a demonstrable impact on       cultural programming in       London, igniting an interest in modern Viennese culture, and Blackshaw's       ongoing research has       been very much a part of this.
Since 2009, she has been working on two       exhibition projects: Facing         the Modern: The Portrait in Vienna 1900 for the National Gallery       (2013-14) and Egon Schiele: The         Radical Nude for the Courtauld (2014).
Such projects have led to a       greater interest in the modern       period in Europe in UK film and broadcasting.
Blackshaw was invited to       collaborate with David       Bickerstaff on the documentary film Peter Altenberg: The Little Pocket         Mirror, which was shown at       the Freud Museum London in 2012 and the Shakespeare &amp; Company bookshop       in Vienna in 2013       (9).
Following up on her co-edited book Journeys into Madness       (10), the BBC approached       Blackshaw to advise on a series presented by Michael Portillo on `Great       Continental Railway       Journeys' that engages with health tourism around 1900.
The development of       such projects,       outside of the book and exhibition outputs that characterise the work of       art historians in       universities, shows the richness and relevance of the `Madness and       Modernity' research.
