     Research by Bennell and Potts and the development of many-to-one and       RouteForce have directly led to commercial gains for Logical Transport       (LT), financial and carbon emission savings for local councils and other       transport providers, and improved experience for passengers.
Benefits to Logical Transport and private industry     As a result of LTs collaboration with Southampton, LT has grown from five       employees and a single product to fifteen employees, with a 58% increase       in turnover between 2009/10 and 2010/11 and moving from a net loss to net       profit [5.1].
Since 2010, LT has used the Many-to-One scheduling software       as part of its core scheduling product [5.2].
This has largely been used       in its consultancy services where LT perform a full analysis of the school       bus requirements for their clients.
Four local authorities and two private       schools used this service and the introduction of RouteForce in 2012       attracted two further local authority clients.
Many-to-One and RouteForce have provided LT with the tools to realise a       significant competitive advantage as they can deal with differing needs of       passengers, flexible capacity vehicles and restrictions in the real road       network.
Competitors' routing software sees passengers as homogeneous and       fails to take into account practical issues such as arriving on the       address side of the road or the difficulty in making U-turns.
The       Southampton-developed tools allow for efficient scheduling of passengers       to vehicles according to any of five key performance indicators: number of       vehicles, mileage, CO2 emissions, vehicle time on road,       passenger time in vehicle.
LT can prioritise different KPIs for clients.
[5.3]     LT software that includes the capabilities developed via the       collaborations, are used by a range of clients for transport scheduling,       such as the National Express Hoppa Service (2009) [5.4] for transferring       passengers between hotels and airport terminals.
As a result, National       Express are able to provide a fixed schedule service during peak times and       flexible scheduling during off-peak hours.
This has delivered improved       customer service in off-peak hours, while reducing operational overheads       and environmental impact.
Introduction of the demand response service has       resulted in a 30% drop in expenditure for National Express without       sacrificing customer service.
Alan Willson (former Director of Business       Development at LT) said: "(the routing engine developed in conjunction         with the University of Southampton) undoubtedly helped to secure the         deal with National Express."
The financial benefit to LT is quantified in a statement in 2009 by Dale       Howarth, Business Development Manager at LT, said: "Over the past two         years our revenues have increased by over 300%.
Our relationship with         the University of Southampton has, and continues to be a significant         contributor to this success".
[5.5]     Advantages to local authorities and schools     School transport represents a major expenditure for local authorities and       schools.
The pressure on public finances in recent years has meant that       the cost of school bus services has come under particular scrutiny.
Since       2010, LT have worked with Bristol, Camden, Devon, Enfield, Halton and       Telford local authorities on school/day care transportation scheduling and       [name of college removed for publication], Trowbridge and St Dunstan's       School on school bus scheduling.
London Borough of Camden run a fleet of       11 fully accessible buses for 173 special needs school children, 23 buses       for adult transportation to day care, and 5 demand responsive buses for       adults who cannot access public transport.
Each bus costs &#163;100k per year.
The study showed a 20% reduction in vehicles and a 61% reduction in miles       driven (2013).
The Transport manager, Callum Johnson, cited the impact of       LT software as one of management information for decision-making including       capacity analysis, and accurate reporting of passengers that is important       for supporting their safeguarding policy.
They are about to implement       Routeforce, which he states "will make a massive difference" in their       ability to reduce costs and environmental impact [5.6].
At [name of       college removed for publication], Trowbridge, the study showed a 19%       reduction in vehicles and a 19% reduction in miles driven, with an       estimated minimum cost saving of &#163;100K per annum (2012).
Benefits to passengers     The studies undertaken by LT for the mentioned councils using Many-To-One       and Routeforce have shown higher quality service in terms of ride time       and/or reduced fuel emissions through better routing.
School children and       day-care patients benefit from shorter ride times and users of National       Express Hoppa Services benefit from a more responsive service.
Since the       software considers seat configuration, passengers that have very special       needs can be accommodated, for example, requiring an escort and vacant       seats next to or in front.
This provides a better service for these       children and aids their social integration.
