     The IML's research has had a continuing impact on analysis and assessment       of the development       of a new international liability regime for maritime and multi-modal       transport operators.
Formally       titled the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International       Carriage of Goods Wholly or       Partly by Sea, the Rotterdam Rules were approved by the UN General       Assembly on 11 December       2008, with a signing ceremony held in Rotterdam on 23 September 2009.
Despite initial fears that       the United States was preparing instead to act unilaterally, by updating       their own regulatory       regime, the US did take part in the drafting of the Rotterdam Rules and       signed them, as did eight       European nations involved in maritime transport.
In all, signatures were       obtained from 25 countries       making up 25% of world trade volume.
The Rules will come into force when       they are ratified by 20       countries.
Seen by some as a vital step in modernising the system upon       which world trade       depends, the new Rules represent a possible international solution to the       many problems and       limitations of the existing regimes, which fail to address important       issues such as door-to-door       transport and electronic transport documents.
The new Rules also       facilitate e-commerce, are more       detailed on shippers' obligations to make cargo ready for carriage, and       contain very specific       provisions on carriers' delivery obligations, while providing them with       the right to limit liability for all       breaches of their obligations under the Rules.
At the same time, the Rules       support the principle of       freedom of contract between the parties and adopt a limited network       liability system which ensures,       to some degree, the absence of conflict with other unimodal carriage       compulsory regimes.
The new Rules were influenced by the IML's research for the EU       Commission, in particular the two       reports proposing a new uniform liability regime: Intermodal       Transportation and Carrier Liability       (1999), and Implementation of the Freight Integrator Action Plan (2006).
Numerous references to       these reports can be found in EU Commission working papers and policy       statements (5.1, 5.2, 5.3,       5.4).
The possibility of the EU developing its own, separate regulatory       system was instrumental in       pushing other players to agree a new worldwide system, and references to       the IML's research can       also be found in policy documents of the United Nations Commission for       Trade and Development,       UNCTAD (5.5, 5.6, 5.7).
The 2006 Action Plan, and the lengthy industry       consultation that followed,       steered the UN towards shifting the focus of the Rotterdam Rules from       maritime transport only to       what is now known as a "maritime plus" approach.
The IML has been involved in drafting key industry documents to help       inform and prepare legal       practitioners for the impact of the new Rules.
The IML's John Dunt was a       member of the drafting       group which produced the 2009 Institute Cargo Clauses (ICC), the current       industry standard for       cargo insurance.
Professor Charles Debattista chaired the Incoterms 2010       International Drafting       Group, drawing up internationally accepted definitions and interpretations       for most common       commercial terms involved in the delivery of goods from sellers to buyers.
These rules, published       by the International Chamber of Commerce, are widely used in commercial       transactions.
Filippo       Lorenzon of the IML formulated the UK submissions to this Group.
Other examples of the IML's continued involvement in policy formulation       and implementation       include being asked in 2010 by the UK government to help draw up the       British Maritime Law       Association's position on the Rotterdam Rules, and provide expert advice       on their ratification for       the UK Department for Business, Innovation and Services.
Filippo Lorenzon       has become Senior       Legal Advisor to the World Bank and has been asked to draft Egypt's law on       multi-modal transport.
His contribution to the World Bank has drawn praise from Periklis       Saragiotis (5.8), a Private Sector       Development Specialist for the Bank's Trade Logistics division, who said:       "Lorenzon's expertise in       multimodal transport law and his deep understanding of the connections       between the law and       practice of multimodal carriage and its socio-economic implications have       been crucial for the       success of our broader Trade Logistics project in Egypt and specifically       for its Multimodal       Component.
In this context, Lorenzon's expertise will be essential for the       improvement of Egypt's       multimodal legislative and regulatory framework and its alignment to       regional and international best       practices."
The IML runs regular Continuing Professional Development courses on the       legal impact of the       Rotterdam Rules, and held two workshops in London in 2009 on the practical       implications for       transport and insurance practitioners.
Professor Yvonne Baatz helped the       British Maritime Law       Association organise a similar workshop designed to raise awareness among       the legal profession.
The President of the British Maritime Law Association, Mr Andrew Taylor,       thanking the speakers,       including Professor Baatz, for their work on the seminar said: "I judge it       to have been a very       successful event.
It was well attended indeed.
More importantly your       contributions were of the       highest quality.
This is what I wanted the BMLA to put on: a high level       analysis.
In turn it generated       a stimulating debate with the audience."
The IML has also published the       first complete commentary       on the new Rules (5.9), a work which has been extensively cited by legal       experts leading the       international debate on the subject.
For example, key industry handbooks       such as Carver on bills         of lading by Guenter Treitel and F. M. B. Reynolds (3rd edition),       London 2012, and The Rotterdam         Rules: The U.N. Convention on Contracts for the International Carriage         of Goods Wholly or Partly         by Sea, by Michael Sturley, Tomotaka Fujita and Gertjan van der       Ziel, London 2010, contain       numerous references to the research work of the IML.
