     The Bill that led to the Third Parties (Rights Against Insurers) Act 1930       was described as a measure that would "commend itself to all quarters of       the House" (Hansard, October 29 1929, volume 231, column 128).
This proved       to be the case, but the Act increasingly failed to keep pace with the       changing landscape of insurance and insolvency.
The Act applied where a person or company took out liability insurance.
If the insured became liable to another person - a third party - the       latter would ordinarily be able to sue the insured, with the liability       covered by the insurer; but under common law the third party was unable to       proceed if the insured became insolvent (instead becoming a general       creditor).
The Act transferred the insured's rights under the insurance       policy to the third party, enabling direct proceedings against the       insurer.
Over the years the Act attracted mounting concern over its encouragement       of time-consuming procedures and unnecessary costs.
The principal purpose       of the 2010 Act was to make it easier, quicker and less expensive for a       third-party claimant to recover compensation from an insurer without first       having to institute proceedings against the insured.
Merkin was one of the       1930 Act's foremost critics, drawing on his research to argue for the need       for change and personally directing the Law Commission's attention to its       shortcomings - detailed in a 20-point letter - after the legislation was       spared immediate reform in a wider investigation into privity of contract       in 1991.
Merkin's research thus led directly to the new Act, playing a key role in       shaping the legislation so as to correct the defects of its predecessor.
His expertise in this field, demonstrated in written and oral evidence,       provided a point-by-point basis for the House of Lords Committee to       determine the feasibility of the new Act and to ensure the Bill could be       passed quickly and without the need for a debate (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4).
This process represented peer review in every sense, with the Committee       comprised of retired Law Lords, QCs, former cabinet ministers and other       Lords with extensive knowledge of the law.
Law Commissioner David Hertzell       and The Right Hon the Lord Mance, former Lord of Appeal and now Justice of       the Supreme Court, were both heavily involved with the legislative changes       (5.5).
The Rt Hon.
the Lord Lloyd of Berwick DL, chairman of the House of       Lords Special Committee, told Merkin at the end of the hearing: "It could       not have gone better."
The House of Commons passed the Bill in less than       an hour.
Chief among the new Act's improvements is that a third party has a direct       claim against an insured's insurers, ensuring policy moneys go to pay the       victim's claim instead of being diverted to the insured's other creditors.
The effects of this should include ensuring the victims of asbestos       exposure obtain compensation; allowing victims to obtain information as to       the adequacy of any insurance before proceedings are commenced; and       preventing insurers from relying on policy conditions affecting claims       where those conditions have been disregarded by an insolvent insured.
It       is not yet possible to gauge the precise benefits of the revised       legislation, as the Act has not yet come into force; but they are expected       - and, indeed, were designed - to be significant.
In 2013 the Government       indicated its intention to amend the Act to introduce further specified       insolvency situations and then to implement it as soon as is reasonably       practicable (5.6).
The new Act met with approval from the wider law industry.
For example UK       law firm Mills and Reeve wrote in 2010 (5.7):     "Whilst the new regime is likely to result in more claims from third       parties, as it will now be possible to bring proceedings first against       insurers to resolve policy issues, if the policy defence is a good one       costs should ultimately be saved.
In addition, if the policy defence       fails, insurers will now have ample opportunity to contest both liability       and quantum of the third party's claim to indemnity under the policy       rather than being presented with a monetary judgment obtained in default       against the insolvent insured which simply has to be paid."
A recognised leader in his field, Merkin continued to shape wider       thinking on insurance law both nationally and internationally.
His work on       the 2010 Act, in addition to being detailed in a House of Lords paper and       freely downloadable minutes of evidence, forms chapter 21 of the ninth       edition of Colinvaux's Law of Insurance (2010), described by publisher       Sweet and Maxwell as the "essential companion for insurance       practitioners".
Other ILRG members have also contributed to the understanding of the Act       by those who will need to apply it in their commercial activities through       articles in practitioner newsletters and journals (Shipping &amp; Trade         Law, Insurance Law Monthly and Asia Pacific Law Review       in 2010); the practitioner reference works Marine Insurance: Law and         Practice (2012); and Insurance Disputes 3rd         edition (2011); and in the text book Maritime law 2nd       edition (5.8).
They have also delivered professional development courses in the UK and       overseas including on the renowned Short Course in Maritime Law (each year       from 2010 onwards) for a combined audience of approximately 200 to date.
The Short Course is provided in Southampton by the Institute of Maritime       Law for an audience consisting of market practitioners such as solicitors,       barristers and insurance and shipping professionals each year in August       and September.
The Act has also been covered on the Institute of Maritime Law Singapore       Short Course, which runs in Singapore annually over two weeks in May.
The       Act has been covered in 2012 and 2013 and included in the course materials       in some previous years.
The course is co-organised with the Singapore       Maritime Foundation and aimed at professionals practicing shipping law in       Singapore.
Dr Ozlem Gurses and Professor Paul Todd spoke about the implications of       the Act at a bespoke course on marine insurance provided to Raets P&amp;I,       a marine insurer, in the Netherlands on 10-11 June 2013, a two-day       intensive course on English insurance law.
The audience was all members of       the underwriting team and claims handlers of Raets.
Most recently, advice on the implications of the Act has been provided to       a Turkish law practitioner dealing with an insurance policy incorporating       English law in April 2013.
The issue was related to the third party's       right to bring a direct action against insurer under English law because       the policy, being on aviation insurance, was based on English standard       terms of aviation insurance.
The same issue was also discussed at the       conference on liability insurance in Istanbul in March 2013 at which Ozlem       Gurses was one of the speakers.
The third party liability insurance market, to which this Act will apply       once it enters into force, is considerable, even excluding motor insurance       (which is separately regulated by the Road Traffic Act 1988).
According to       the Association of British Insurers, the UK insurance industry is the       largest in Europe and the third largest in the world, accounting for 7% of       total worldwide premium income.
About 30% of the UK insurance industry's       net premium income comes from overseas business, most of which is       long-term business (&#163;46 billion) (5.9).
The likely reach of the Act is global, as English law is the law of       choice for many business insurance policies.
