     Research into particle hazard assessment in relation to human health,       carried out at Edinburgh       Napier University over the past 20 years, has informed policy and funding       strategy for the       European Commission, Non-Governmental Organisations, and the United       Kingdom Government.
For example, numerous scientific reports commissioned by Defra &#8212; REFNANO,       HARN, CELLPEN       and EMERGNANO (all published online), were completed by Edinburgh Napier       University.
This       work contributes to, and raises the profile of, our other work in       providing expert advice on particle       toxicology to the World Health Organisation and evidence for the       Government-commissioned       reports published by the Royal Society/Royal Academy of Engineering       (2003), the Royal       Commission, and the Department of Health's Committee on the Medical       Effects of Air Pollution       (COMEAP).
The KTP has demonstrated that a number of different in vitro       screening assays can be applied to       potential inhaled candidate molecules.
Although relatively few assays that       were examined       appeared predictive of an in vivo effect, they permitted a ranking       of risk factors among potential       candidates.
The KTP also demonstrated that in vitro cell lines       produce similar results to primary       cells isolated from a rat and dog, which allows more efficient screening       of molecules and reduction       in animal usage.
The impact of the project resulted in reduction and       replacement of animals in pre-clinical       testing, by providing in vitro models that reflect the in vivo       responses GSK had previously       observed.
Overall, the partnership delivered on its objectives set by GSK       (Sources 5.1, 5.2 and       5.3).
The transfer of knowledge from Edinburgh Napier University to GSK informs       the pre-clinical team       as to the selection of potential drug candidates.
This was achieved by       providing biological data to       underpinning physiological responses to drug substances, and identifying       potential differences in       response between animal test species.
The longer term impact is that       candidate compounds not       suitable for clinical use are taken out of the production line much       earlier, reducing cost and       accelerating patient access to new therapeutics.
The KTP facilitated the       development of       experimental methodology, the training of five GSK personnel in harvesting       of pulmonary       macrophages via bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), and in the analysis of BAL       samples in animal       safety studies.
The contribution and impact to GSK, having implemented       study KTP       recommendations (Source 5.2, KTP published report, 2012), has resulted in       a shift in approach to       earlier hazard assessment by the inhaled sciences division of the company       (Source 5.1).
The       identified benefit from the KTP will reduce drug development costs and       reduce attrition, delivered       via data-driven development decisions.
Savings will span company       functions.
This is estimated to       be approximately &#163;7 million over a five-year period if the decision to       cease progression of just one       molecule was made, based on the result of the research conducted (Source       5.2).
The extent of the impact generated from the KTP is two-fold.
The first       activity directly changed was       screening strategies carried out within the company line functions (Source       5.1 and 5.2).
Secondly,       the KTP associate presented orally at internal line meetings, and larger       company symposia, which       allowed the findings and key messages to percolate through the company to       key stakeholders       (Source 5.4).
As highlighted in GSK's KTP report, this work will influence       programme teams across       the United Kingdom (UK) and US arms of the company (Source 5.2).
The       project has had wider       impact and Dr Hutchison, from Edinburgh Napier University, has been       recognised for his significant       research into the field of hazard assessment, particularly the work of the       collaborative KTP project,       and was invited (December 2012) to become a member of Defra's new       Hazardous Substances       Advisory Committee (HSAC; source 5.5).
The Committee remit is to inform       and guide UK       Government Ministers on policy such as pharmaceutical testing strategies       and their impact on the       environment.
HSAC will also lead on developing a stance, and guiding       policy, on issues       surrounding new emerging technologies and their impact on society.
Dr       Hutchison has already       contributed to the guidance document "Hazard and Risk Assessment of       Substances: The HSAC       Approach", published June 2013, to advise Defra's Chief Scientific Advisor       and the Minister       responsible for HSAC.
Collectively, these pieces of evidence demonstrate the real world impact,       above and beyond       academic beneficiaries, that Edinburgh Napier University's research, in       the area of particle       toxicology assessment, has had.
