     Impact on Policy       The results of our evaluation began to emerge in 2008 and were fed back       regularly to the Healthy Respect team and Government, including       the two research papers published in 2013 (3.2, 3.3).
We also published       two reports: an interim report in 2008 (5.1) and a final report in 2010       (5.2).
All were designed to synchronise to the policy-making cycles of       Government and the NHS.
For example, our final report was peer-reviewed by members of the Healthy         Respect team and Government representatives (5.3).
Two of the       research team, Dr Henderson and Professor Wight, sat on the Scottish       Government Health Department, National Sexual Health &amp; HIV Advisory       Committee which advised on the Scottish Government's new sexual health       strategy published in 2011 entitled: `Sexual Health and Blood Borne Virus       Framework 2011-2015'.
The results of our evaluation directly shaped this       policy which emphasises the need for early intervention (5.4).
`The evaluation of Healthy Respect also highlighted that poor       outcomes in teen years, including sexual risk-taking, are best tackled in       the early years of a child's life; that there is a need to work more       intensely with young people to help them address underlying issues which       shape sexual health; that the most vulnerable young people should be       targeted for interventions; and that generic aspects of parenting are more       important than communication about sexual matters.'
Sexual Health and       Blood Borne Virus Framework 2011-2015, P19.
The Health Improvement Programme Manager (NHS Health Scotland) was a key       link between the Government, the NHS and other stakeholders on sexual       health and stated in May 2013: "The Healthy Respect evaluation       helped to shape policy on the sexual health of young people".
NHS Health       Scotland used the evaluation reports to inform current policy including       the `Sexual Health and Blood Borne Virus Framework 2011-2015'.
(5.5).
The Specialist in Public Health Scottish Government, Healthy Respect       Lead, and now Deputy Director of Public Health NHS Lothian stated in March       2013: "The iterative feedback throughout the evaluation process allowed us       to make early changes to the Healthy Respect intervention.
The       evaluation results also informed Government sexual health policy including       the Respect and Responsibility Sexual Health Outcomes Plan 2008-2011 and       the Sexual Health and Blood Borne Virus Framework 2011-2015.
It also       influenced thinking around broader policies such as the report of the       Ministerial Task Force on Health Inequalities 2008".
(5.6).
In 2013, Professor Elliott was invited, on the basis of the evaluation of       Healthy Respect, to present evidence to the Scottish cross       parliamentary Health and Sport Committee's Inquiry into Teenage Pregnancy       which was held on 26th February 2013 (5.7).
The aim of the committee was       to initiate a new round of policy thinking.
In October 2013, the Scottish       Minister for Public Health Michael Matheson MSP, responded by letter to       the findings of the Inquiry.
He welcomed the recommendation to address the       determinants of poor sexual health (which are wider than health) and       intervening early in life to break the intergenerational cycle of health       inequalities (5.8).
Impact on Service Provision       Our research findings emphasised the importance of collaboration between       agencies (3.2) and these influenced operational policy on sexual health       service provision, particularly that which improved access for young       people to a wider range of health and other services.
In March 2013, the Specialist in Public Health Scottish Government, Healthy         Respect Lead, and now Deputy Director of Public Health NHS Lothian       stated "The research has helped Healthy Respect to improve current       health care pathways for young people particularly those from       disadvantaged backgrounds" (5.7).
In June 2013, the Programme Leader for Sexual Health and Healthy         Respect Manager (NHS Lothian) and the Senior Sexual Health Promotion       Specialist, Healthy Respect (NHS Lothian), stated "The outcomes       paper (3.3), confirmed that Healthy Respect, as a demonstration       project, had some way to go to improve the sexual health of young people.
The partnership paper (3.2) suggested we should build on our success in       service collaboration particularly with a view to connecting with the       broader health agenda.
Our approach has always been to respond to emerging       evidence and practice.
For example, our drop-in clinics now offer young       people the opportunity to address a range of health issues including drug       and alcohol use, social, emotional and mental well-being and on-line       safety.
We are also collaborating on approaches to teenage pregnancy which       recognise its complexity and the need to work together to effect a       sustained reduction, as well as to improve other health and educational       outcomes for young parents and their children" (5.9).
