     Until the early 1990s, the techniques used by police officers when       interviewing witnesses were largely unobserved &#8212; and therefore not open to       rigorous scrutiny.
The introduction of video recordings in 1991 put the       quality of evidential interviews in the spotlight.
Both the original 1992       MOGP and 2001 ABE were influenced by the findings of research carried out       at Leicester and are considered to have been enormously influential in       guiding the practice of evidential interviewers in the UK and around the       world, helping them to achieve better, more robust evidence from       interviews involving challenging circumstances (A).
Revisions in       the 2007 and 2011 editions were influenced by the unit's continuing       research, particularly on cognitive interviewing techniques.
`Staggering improvement' in interviewing techniques     The National Policing Improvement Agency's Vulnerable Witness Adviser,       says that there has been a "staggering improvement" in interview       techniques and practice since the late 1980s.
"Before these guidelines       were drawn up, interviewers relied on one chapter of a police manual,       which basically said: "Don't ask leading questions."
Graham and Ray's work       was the first to create an interview structure and a set of techniques for       evidential interviewing which are still used today."
(A).
Although the documents apply to practice in England and Wales, they have       been used as the basis for similar guidance in Scotland and Northern       Ireland.
Their influence has spread internationally: while differing       judicial systems require their own set of rules, countries such as France       and the US have incorporated the core standards into their own guidance.
Sharing best practice around the world     Practitioners in the UK have also shared these standards with       prosecutors, judges, social workers, police officers and NGOs working in       countries where evidential interviewing of children is less established       than in Europe and North America.
The Lead Officer for the Association of       Chief Police Officers (ACPO) on child protection and sex offenders from       1989 to 2001, has worked on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office       in Malaysia, Jordan, Cuba, Costa Rica, Belize, the Dominican Republic,       Chile and Argentina.
He says: "This training and guidance is directly       underpinned by the research at Leicester."
(B).
Projects in 2012       included changing procedures and practices for interviewing child       witnesses in Chile in collaboration with the police force; and working       with an NGO in Argentina on integrating the activities of police and       others in the criminal justice system into a more coherent approach to the       investigation of allegations of child sexual abuse.
In his training of practitioners, including 12 psychologists from the       provinces of Tucuman, Jujuy and Formosa, Argentina, in the theory and       practice of interviewing child victims and witnesses, The ACPO Officer       uses the book Tell Me What Happened, part of a series called The       Psychology of Crime, Policing and Law, edited by Davies and Bull (C).
He says: "They are written in accessible language suitable for       practitioners and I carry copies with me all over the world.''
Expert testimony in court     Based upon their research, members of the unit are called upon five or       six times a year each to provide expert testimony in family law and       criminal law courts across the UK, Channel Islands and Republic of       Ireland.
Dr Robyn Holliday reviews around 30 hours of videotaped evidence       a year to assess whether an interview has been conducted appropriately &#8212;       that no suggestive prompts are made, that questions are age-appropriate       and that the witness understands the difference between the truth and a       lie.
Improving eyewitness identification procedures     Dr Heather Flowe's work on identification procedures informed the New       York State's District Attorneys and all of the state's police agencies'       voluntary adoption of the New York State Identification Procedure       Guidelines for the showing of photo arrays and line-ups to witnesses of       crimes in 2010 (D).
The guidelines spell out how to compose a fair       photo array or line-up so that the suspect does not stand out in a way       that could encourage an incorrect identification.
Flowe has been asked to testify in numerous trials, including that of       [text removed for publication], whose conviction for first-degree murder       was based on an eyewitness's testimony.
She was commended for her ability       to "relate the subject to common, real-life experiences."
(E)     Flowe's training courses on identification procedures, in December 2012,       for the Manhattan District Attorney's Office were both live (two 2-hour       sessions attended by 100 attorneys) and online, a version of which was       distributed to 500 Assistant DAs, who handle 100,000 criminal cases each       year, as well as the New York Prosecutors' Training Institute, so DAs from       across the state could access it.
The training includes discussion of the       impact of inaccurate identifications on wrongful convictions as well as       the importance of avoiding inadvertent influences.
Psychological support in `most grave and challenging'           investigations     Dr Julian Boon is one of only two external psychological profilers used       by the Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA, now NCA) and other police       forces in need of expert psychological support in their investigations,       which tend to be of the "most grave and challenging nature".
(F) He       helps the police to understand what kind of person could commit an       appalling act and how such traits might manifest themselves in everyday       routines.
Boon has provided advice on a number of high-profile cases such       as [text removed for publication].
The former Commander of the       Metropolitan Police Service, explains the "true great value" of profiling:       "There might be fifty suspects.
Homing in on the right one sooner rather       than later can save weeks of investigation at anything around &#163;50,000 a       week and upwards, in some cases it can truncate a series of rapes, and in       some cases it can save lives.
After arrest, an understanding of psychology       can be of great assistance in constructing an interview strategy and a       court cross examination strategy.
This can increase prospects of       conviction [although] no measurement [has been] attempted."
Boon also trains 30 senior police officers and counter-terrorism experts       in advanced interrogative interviewing techniques.
He conducts risk       assessments in prisons of violent offenders for the Parole Board, using       his clinical judgement and a psychometric assessment to determine how       successfully (bona fide or pretending) they have responded to treatment       programmes and whether they are safe to be released into Category D open       conditions or the community.
He gives evidence in a number of court cases       a year at all levels (Magistrate's, Crown and Royal) on the influence of       suggestibility and/or compliance in relation to interviewing and       reliability, commenting on whether the interviewing style is likely to       have caused the interviewee to have given unreliable evidence at any       point.
