     Our work on psychological trauma is developmental and extends beyond the       Research Excellence Framework assessment period.
It has impacted policy,       mental health guidelines, practitioner training, professional practice and       patient health, with national and international reach.
Informing policy and engagement with stakeholders and policy makers     The evidence we have produced on the effectiveness and acceptability of       interventions for psychological trauma has informed clinical guidelines       for the treatment of trauma-related conditions.
Our first trial on the       effectiveness of TFCBT vs. EMDR3,1 has been cited by NICE       (2005) guidelines for the treatment of PTSD5,1.
The NICE       guidelines have informed the 2011 guidelines regarding the delivery of       evidence-based psychological interventions in Scotland for trauma and       complex trauma led by NHS Education for Scotland (NES).
S&amp;T is a Phase       I intervention as recommended for the treatment of complex trauma in the       Matrix.
Prof. Karatzias was invited to be involved in the development of       the Matrix for trauma and complex trauma5,2.
Because of his expertise in the area of psychological trauma, and as the       Chair of the British Psychological Society Working Party for Survivors of       Sexual Abuse (BPSSS), Prof. Karatzias was invited to join the National       Reference Group for SurvivorScotland (2010 - 2012)5,3.
The       remit of the group was to develop a national strategy (i.e.
SurvivorScotland) for survivors of sexual abuse in Scotland.
Some of our       work on psychological trauma has been funded directly by SurvivorScotland       (see section 3, grants).
Because of his expertise in childhood trauma,       Prof. Karatzias has been asked to consult and advise the Scottish       Government on a number of occasions.
As an example, in 2011, Prof.       Karatzias led the evaluation of the In-Care Service, the only Scottish       national service for survivors of child sexual abuse5,4.
Impacts on healthcare practitioners, stakeholders and trauma survivors     We have conducted the first ever trial on EFT and have provided evidence       to the international community that this is an effective, acceptable and       safe intervention for PTSD.
Unlike other established treatments for PTSD,       such as TFCBT, EFT requires limited cognitive ability and, therefore, can       be used with people with cognitive impairments including those with       learning difficulties and disabilities.
By demonstrating the benefits of       this new intervention, a large number of vulnerable people with PTSD will       profit.
"Acts of Recovery" has been endorsed by the Scottish Recovery Network       (SRN) from 2012, a national initiative aiming to raise awareness of       recovery from mental health problems, which can be downloaded for free by       healthcare professionals and survivors from their website5,5.
Mr Simon Bradstreet, Director of the SRN, said about "Acts of Recovery":     "Excellent resource &#8212; very clear and engaging content and well         designed which always helps".
We are aware that the resource is being used in the UK and abroad, and we       have received written feedback for this from colleagues in the UK and       abroad (e.g.
Australia).
For example, Dr Alison Souter, Manager Regional       Psychological Services, Ashfield, Australia said:     "Thanks for a great booklet.
I can see that some sections, especially         chapters 2 and 6 are a great resource for psychologists to use in         preparing young people for leaving care together with "Survive and         Thrive"     The following quote was provided by Dr Sue Waring, Head of Adult Mental       Health in NHS Highland.
"I shared this with the group I'm running this afternoon and it had quite       an impact on them...
They all felt it was very relevant and really was       something they could connect with.
Job well done"     Because of its popularity, an easy-read version for people with       communication difficulties, such as people with learning disabilities was       also developed, in April 2013, and used across NHS areas in Scotland and       beyond.
It is also available on-line from a number of third sector       organisations such as Rape Crisis5,6.
In 2010, Karatzias was invited to Chair the BPSSS with members from NHS       Psychological Therapies Services and academics with an interest in this       area.
Dr Chouliara is the lead researcher for this group.
In partnership       with SurvivorScotland, the Scottish Government Strategy for Survivors of       Sexual Abuse, the Working Party aims to raise awareness on prevalence and       consequences of child sexual abuse and support relevant work in the areas       of services, training and research on issues affecting survivors of sexual       abuse.
In 2011, BPSSS and Edinburgh Napier University hosted an event with       key stakeholders from Scotland to discuss the management of traumatic       conditions in survivors of trauma.
More than 100 health and social care       professionals from statutory and voluntary services attended the event at       which our research on psychological interventions for childhood trauma was       presented and discussed5,7.
The interventions we have developed for psychological trauma have been       applied to practice by multi-professional teams including nurse       therapists, psychologists, counsellors, therapists and psychiatrists and       have improved the management of mental health conditions in trauma       survivors.
Since 2011, more than 162 survivors have been treated with       S&amp;T. The following quote was provided by one of them:     "Thank you so much, I have taken away so much from my sessions on a         Tuesday afternoon".
Another survivor also said after session 8: "Thank         you for all of your help, I have benefitted from your help".
Since 2011, more than 50 therapists have been trained on S&amp;T and now       deliver the interventions across Scotland5,8.
NES has sponsored       training of health professionals on the delivery of S&amp;T across NHS       areas in Scotland.
An evaluation was conducted of this training and rated       very highly by healthcare professionals.
It was concluded that:     The embedding of Survive and Thrive will help increase capacity within         the trauma informed services of NHS Scotland, offering psycho-education         to people who do not wish or require an individualised psychological         intervention (NES / BPS, 23/10/2012)5,8.
