     The research has influenced the development and international adoption of       tools in two areas of       foreign investment policy: agriculture and value chain.
Mirza's       appointment as Chief of Investment       Issues Research at UNCTAD, on secondment from the School of Management,       constituted the       culmination of a long process of engagement between Bradford researchers       and trans-national policy       organisations.
In this capacity he is responsible for work on economic       development impact and the       thematic (research) section of the annual World Investment Report.
This       role links to related work       throughout the UN system and sister organisations such as the       International Monetary Fund (IMF) and       the World Bank.
In addition, Mirza continues as advisor to the ASEAN       Secretariat (since 1997) (a) on       investment matters, including co-authorship of the ASEAN Investment       Report.
The findings of the DFID-funded Bradford study (2,3), underpinned the       development of a number       of principles (on economic, social and environmental impact) formulated       within PRAI in recognition       of the various types of impact and with the notion of testability in mind.
PRAI has been conceived       as a policy tool that when applied to agricultural investments enables       policy makers to analyse the       potential impacts of a proposed policy and identify unintended       consequences that may have       negative impact.
It significantly reduces the chances of generating       negative externalities (for       example through competitive pressures on local producers, capital       repatriation and loss of control),       resulting in positive impacts (on employment creation, economic growth       etc).
Mirza was directly       involved in the development of PRAI (in his UNCTAD capacity) alongside the       Food and Agriculture       Organisation (FAO) (b), International Fund for Agricultural Development       (IFAD), and the World       Bank in 2009.
The PRAI was subsequently adopted as a key policy tool by       the G20 in its 2010       Summit.
The World Bank testimonial (c) states that "your model         delineating the routes of FDI         impact on developing host countries ... is proving very useful in our         work with governments".
From the outset the PRAI was viewed as a living policy tool that would       evolve with better       knowledge and information from further research and use in practice.
In       order to generate       information that would assist the enhancement of PRAI as a policy tool,       UNCTAD and the World       Bank (under the leadership of Mirza) conducted an international study of       50 agricultural investment       projects in Africa and Asia, using the study design and survey instruments       that Mirza, Giroud and       others had developed previously for the DFID study.
As stated in the       testimonial provided by the       Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan to Mirza (d) `the Bradford FDI         impact framework that you         deployed ... was ... important in helping to formulate and elaborate         policies for international         investment in developing country agriculture.'
The results were       recently presented in the Inter-Agency       Working Group (UNCTAD, FAO, IFAD, &amp; World Bank) Workshop at the Tokyo       International Conference on African Development (TICAD V, 2013) (e).
This       led to support being       given to PRAI at TICAD V by 47 African Heads of State and the Japanese       Government.
The latter       is funding its implementation; first to operationalise the principles for       use by governments and       investors; and second to demonstrate their effective application for wider       take-up.
This work is a       major component of the G8 "New Alliance Framework", a partnership which       includes all G8       countries and 10 African Development Partner countries.
A set of Indicators for Measuring and Maximizing Economic Value Added         and Job Creation from         Private Investment in Specific Value Chains (f), directly       influenced by the FDI model, were       developed by the UNCTAD and the OECD, with support from the International       Labour Office (ILO),       the UNDP and United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO).
More specifically, the       10 indicators developed build on the direct, multiplier and spillover       effects identified in the model.
They centre particularly around job creation in affiliates and joint       venture partners/suppliers, wider       value added through multiplier effects, and longer-term impacts on       sustainable development (e.g.
technology indigenisation, skills transfer and environmental impact).
Conceived for the G20       Development Pillar, the indicators developed build on the value chain       approach adopted in the       original research.
Indeed, as suggested in the testimonial of the       Malaysian Investment       Development Agency to Mirza (g) "the Bradford model [showed] ... how         linkages and spillovers         work ... it is therefore important for MIDA ... to be able to translate         the understanding of such new         realities".
In 2013, IMMEV are being implemented in low-income       countries, through (i) benchmark       studies of specific value chains, such as garments, tourism and logistics;       and (ii) six country case       studies: Bangladesh, Cambodia, Dominican Republic, Laos, Mongolia and       Mozambique.
