     This research provides a platform for artists, technologists and       scientists to develop new research and creative work.
Its intention is to       foster new relationships and collaborations with a range of stakeholders,       disciplines and communities and has a wide variety of impacts.
In 2012 i-DAT (http://www.i-dat.org)       secured Arts Council National Portfolio Organization status on the basis       of this research, following a highly competitive national application       process.
The research consistently delivers well above ACE expectations as       evidenced in the significant increase in audience numbers.
Since 2008-2011       this research supported 215 artists with 4059 participants and an audience       of 24178.
This was generated through 608 exhibition days, 57 new       commissions and 702 days of employment for artists and 319 training       sessions.
As an indicator of cultural impact i-DAT's audience figures have       increased from 5000 in 2011/12 to 1478,380 in 2012/13.
Of this 1473,167       are online, and 5,213 offline.
882 CYP workshops and collaborations have       been delivered.
Prof Phillips research is actively contributing to Policy Making through       his involvement with Arts Council England's cultural strategy, the       regional Arts Council England SW Digital Reference Group, the TSB Internet       of Things Special Interest Group and the AHRC Internet of Things Advisory       Board.
Strong relationships established with Arts organisations, artists,       SME's, Councils and the third sector on the back of this research provides       significant economic impact.
This includes sponsorship from IBM for the       Smarter Planet R&amp;D studio at Plymouth University.
Bio-OS supported a collaboration (2011) with the E-Health and Health       Informatics research group at Plymouth University Faculty of Health,       Derriford Hospital and IBM Smarter Planet to design a prototype       intelligent catheter (`iWee') to address costs to the NHS of treating       catheter-induced infections.
S-OS Civil Society, Policy making and Public services impacts include a       collaboration with Plymouth City Council (PCC) supporting the development       of the city `Visitors Plan' and ways to attract and support tourists.
The       research also assisted the PCC successful first stage TSB Future City       Catapult (&#163;50,000) and provided an information system to collect social       network data and sentiment analysis for the British Art Show 7 (2011) and       the Economic Impact report commissioned by PCC.
This led to the Cheltenham       Science Festival Keji (2012) installation and recently the NESTA Digital       R&amp;D award (&#163;127,000 in cooperation with Cheltenham Festivals and       Warwick University and supported by Facebook) for the Qualia Project, a       real-time monitoring system to collate the economic, cultural and social       impact of cultural events.
Eco-OS has contributed involved public engagement with schools through       workshops and artists commissions.
For example, Eco-OS provided the       platform for the Confluence project (2011-12), funded by Leader 4 and Arts       Council England, in collaboration with Beaford Arts, Appledore Arts, North       Devon Biosphere Reserve, involving eight schools and four artists.
According to Andrew Bell, Biosphere Reserve Coordinator, "A major benefit       from the project was the trans-disciplinary working; which put the       Biosphere Reserve scientific people in contact with technicians developing       the sensors and the lead artists to explore and challenge ideas and       concepts and provide new inspiration for portraying information (See       source 5 below).
Dr Fish of the Centre for Rural Policy Research University of Exeter sees       the Confluence Project as "part of the work enabling communities to       orientate themselves towards the lived realities of environmental change       and innovate within their changing circumstances."
and "as much as the       rational technocracies of policy and decision making might otherwise       imply, environment processes need to be felt as much as understood."
(See       source 5 below).
Extremely positive responses from the participants and       audiences support this insight: "A way of stimulating the mind to look at       the environment through data capture.
Wow!"
and "Gorgeous use of data.
Dreamy, one minute I was flying then swimming underwater" (See source 5       below).
The research facilitated 3 Village Hall roadshows, 39 workshops       with schools with a total of 1673 people.
The Confluence project's       audience engagement contributed to a &#163;750,000 award to the North Devon       Biosphere (totalling &#163;3 million with partnership contributions) from DEFRA       for a Nature Improvement Area.
Dome-OS has established an international fulldome festival, FULLDOMEUK (http://www.fulldome.org.uk/)       which is the catalyst for an international network that is informing       policy making in the fulldome community (led by IMERSA, USA), initiating       new licensing, distribution and production and display technologies and       practices.
i-DAT's work with real-time data is creating new opportunities       for creative workers in the field and supporting interdisciplinary       collaborations for scientific visualisation.
This research has been       consolidated by the establishment of the European Mobile Dome Lab for       International Media Artists funded by the EU Culture Programme, Strand       1.3.5, &#8364;200k (project # 545974), 09/2013, with University of Applied Arts       Vienna (lead), NTLab - University of Athens (GR), Trans-Media-Akademie       Hellerau (DE), Society for Arts and Technology (CA)2028 - Universit&#233; Laval       (CA).
