     Research within the Unit principally impacts on national and       international policy in respect of safe disposal of radioactive wastes, a       problem whose long term global significance cannot be overstated.
The       scope of expertise within the Radiochemistry Research Group at       Loughborough University has ensured that the reach of the impact spans a       range of different aspects with international dimension.
Examples from       four areas are given below, dealing with in turn: design of deep       geological repositories for nuclear wastes, the effect of organic matter       on radionuclide speciation-solubility, marine discharges, and management       of non-nuclear sources of radioactive materials (NORM).
Examples from the       first three areas contribute to the broader remit of safeguarding the       environment, while the final studies show how the Unit has shaped policy.
&#8226;Safeguarding the Environment     Concerns regarding the efficacy of cement as a backfill for conditioning       radionuclides as low solubility, immobile species originally led to an       avoidance strategy being implemented in nuclear disposal programmes, for       example in Finland and Sweden.
Although excluding cement entirely is       impossible with a deep geological repository, the apparent dichotomy       between approaches in national programmes has been exploited by opponents       of nuclear waste disposal (and hence new build) to illustrate the       uncertainties in process understanding and supporting technologies.
Research carried out at Loughborough University has helped reduce the       uncertainty by highlighting where cements can fulfil their design function       and where components of the system require modification.
Specifically, it       has been shown that the presence of organic complexants, either natural       (humic/fulvic acids) [3.3] or anthropogenic [3.2]       (cellulose degradation products, superplasticisers) can enhance the       mobility of otherwise immobile species.
Conversely, species that are       routinely treated as unretarded through engineered barriers and host rocks       in safety case analyses (e.g.
technetium, iodine) have been shown to bind       effectively to mineral phases; i.e.
existing models are overly       conservative.
Evidence that these findings impact on future programmes         can be found in revised research and implementation programmes, for       example consideration of alternative backfill materials (e.g.
phosphate-amended cement in the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, USA;       prohibition of superplasticisers in Finland) and manufacture of modified       superplasticisers by UK industry (Grace Chemicals).
Radio-labelled NOM has       been utilised by Loughborough researchers to investigate contaminant       transport through a sandy aquifer at the Drigg repository, Cumbria and       through the Boom Clay at Mol, Belgium.
These studies were used to         estimate the importance of organic complexing ligands in facilitating         the migration of uranium and plutonium, being cited in Post Closure         Safety Cases for each site [5.1], [5.2].
David Read, Professor of Radiochemistry at Loughborough University was       one of three independent scientists asked to assess the feasibility of       technetium abatement technologies on behalf of the Environment Agency.
Following acceptance by British Nuclear Fuels Limited of recommendations       made by Loughborough University researchers regarding the use of       tetraphenylphosphonium bromide (TPPB) as a technetium sequestering agent,         a &#163;100m treatment plant was commissioned and discharges of 99Tc         to the Irish Sea are now reduced by 90% compared to previous levels       [5.3].
The corollary was accumulation of a new waste-form       whose long-term behaviour when encapsulated in cement was unknown.
Fundamental research, commissioned at Loughborough (2004-2011) has       established the stability of this waste and shed light on its potential       behaviour in the geosphere [3.4, 3.5, 5.4].
&#8226; Shaping Policy     An enormous volume of radioactive waste is created each year by the       production and combustion of fossil fuels and exploitation of industrial       minerals.
Gross under-estimation of the problem by both industry and       Government became apparent during revision of the Environmental Permitting       Regulations (EPR) from 2009 onwards.
The financial implications of       choosing a particular threshold for regulation and clearance of       radioactively-contaminated land are enormous and, inevitably, a compromise       needs to be reached between the level of environmental protection sought       and the finite resources available for remediation.
Early drafts of the       EPR not only omitted key NORM-producing industries but miscalculated the       effect of aggregating progeny radionuclides from the two main natural       decay chains (238U and 232Th).
The consequence was       overly restrictive limits that would have driven many businesses overseas.
Input by Loughborough University researchers to consultation documents         led to a much improved legislative framework (EPR 2011) [5.5].
The       intervention during the formulation of this framework prevented highly       damaging changes to Exemption Orders that would have made production of inter         alia advanced TiO2 and Zr coatings in the UK non-viable.
Similar considerations apply to the China Clay industry of SW England       where successful remediation of NORM contamination is allowing       regeneration of 700ha brownfield land under the Government's EcoTown       initiative.
This has also impacted European policy; it is noted that China       Clay for example, which is also produced in France and the Czech Republic       is still not included in the current version of the Basic Safety Standards       (EC COM 2012, IAEA 2011) but will be in the next revision following its       adoption in the UK.
A Loughborough spin-in company (Enviras Limited) was       launched in 2011; sited on campus it provides high quality UKAS accredited       radiochemical analysis specifically for supporting the remediation of       radioactively contaminated land.
[5.6]     &#8226; Training the Next Generation of Nuclear Specialists     The third aspect of the Unit's impact stems from its ability to deliver a       strong grounding in radiochemical work for a large number of students both       at Undergraduate (e.g.
via the 2nd and 3rd year       modules "Radiochemistry" and "Physical and Radiochemistry" respectively)       and Postdoctoral levels.
Such training has impacted significantly on the       effectiveness of bodies such as the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority who       currently employ undergraduate and doctoral graduates from the Unit in a       range of senior positions.
Many other organisations whose activities hinge       on radiochemical expertise have employed undergraduate and postgraduate       students who have benefited from the research environment in the Unit,       through their doctoral work (with17 students engaged in PhD work during       the REF period) and undergraduate/MSc research projects etc.
