     The most significant impact arising from this work was the role it played       in determining UK policy in response to the Urban Waste Water Treatment       Directive (UWWTD).
Specifically, the work led by Professor Tett saved the       UK approximately &#163;6 billion (as estimated by the Environment Agency) with       UK taxpayers as the ultimate beneficiaries.
The UWWTD governs how member states should treat sewage discharges into       coastal waters.
It requires the application of tertiary treatment to       remove nutrients when discharges occur into eutrophic waters.
In 1999, the       European Commission (EC) accused the UK of infracting the UWWTD by failing       to identify certain coastal waters in England and Wales as eutrophic, and       the case came before the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in 2007.
Defending the case involved empirical work on the relationships between       nutrients and algal growth and conceptual clarity around what was meant by       the key term undesirable disturbance taken from the UWWTD       definition of eutrophication.
In anticipation of this case, in 2004, DEFRA commissioned a review of       'undesirable disturbance in the context of eutrophication' from a group       led by Tett.
The group (see Tett et al., 2007)3.1       concluded that `an undesirable disturbance is a perturbation of a         marine ecosystem that appreciably degrades the health or threatens the         sustainable human use of that ecosystem', and proposed methods for       detecting such disturbance.
The methods were applied by a team including       Tett and colleagues from SAMS, CEFAS, the Agri-Food and Biosciences       Institute, and elsewhere, to show lack of undesirable disturbance in the       Irish Sea, one of the contested areas (Gowen et al., 2008)3.6.
During the defence, the UK was able to cite the undesirable disturbance       work and the arguments were accepted by the Court (e.g.
para.
330, 332 &#8212; they refer to the paper as the Gowen report 2007)5.1,5.2.
In       addition, evidence from Tett and Gowen on the biology of phytoplankton       growth was presented orally to court in April 2009.
This drew on the CSTT       work and demonstrated that most UK coastal waters were light limited       because of turbidity, which was crucial in winning the case5.1.
In December 2009, it was announced that the UK had won the relevant part       of its case (ECJ, 2009), thus avoiding fines, and the necessity for very       expensive tertiary sewage treatment plants.
The work has influenced other       areas of UK response to EU legislation, for example the EU's Marine       Strategy Framework Directive (adopted in June 2008).
This aims to protect       the marine environment across Europe by achieving `good environmental       status' of the EU's marine waters by 2020, and to protect the resource       base upon which marine-related economic and social activities depend.
As       in the case of the UWWTD, implementing the legislation requires conceptual       clarity about key terms and the scientific tools and procedures to measure       the relevant variables.
In particular, it requires that the commission       should lay down criteria and methodological standards to allow consistency       of approach in evaluating the extent to which Good Environmental Status       (GES) is being achieved.
The Commission established Task Groups of experts       to achieve this for each of the descriptors in the directive.
Task group 5       reported on eutrophication in 20105.3.
It included Tett as one       of the expert authors, and drew on the work on undesirable disturbance and       the plankton community index to establish standards that will be used in       implementing the directive across the EU, thus helping to maintain and       enhance the health of the marine environment within the EU.
Impacts of the work in defining assimilative capacity and undesirable       disturbance included policy on aquaculture, in particular on the siting of       finfish and shellfish farms5.4.
Tett and Fernandes were authors       on the Huntington et al.
2006 report to the Directorate-General       for Fish and Maritime Affairs of the EC on `Some Aspects of the       Environmental Impact of Aquaculture in Sensitive Areas'.
This has been       used by the EC to inform policy on aquaculture.
It has also informed the       application of the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) sustainable fisheries       certification in Scottish waters.
For example, the Shetland and Scottish       Mainland Rope Grown mussel Enhanced fishery was certified by the MSC in       April 2012, using Huntington et al.
2006 to support their       `principle 2 &#8212; ecosystem sustainability'5.5.
This industry is       growing rapidly, with more than 7,000 tonnes produced in 2010.
Its further       growth will be supported by the MSC accreditation.
Hence, the ENU work on healthy seas has established a strong tradition of       interpreting fundamental ecological concepts, such as ecosystem health,       and facilitating their application by policy makers in settings from       pollution control to ecosystem restoration.
