     Our work has had local (environmental and social improvements), national       (policy development and implementation) and international (formation of       regional and international practitioner networks) impacts; has informed       policy makers and has raised awareness and understanding among the general       public in Kenya and the UK.
Coastal communities in Kenya suffer from chronic poverty.
They rely       heavily on natural resources, particularly fish, and are vulnerable to       environmental degradation.
The 3,000 people living in the Gazi Bay area of       Kenya benefit directly from Mikoko Pamoja, a project designed by the       Huxham team (from 2008-2013), based on the research described in section       2, that uses carbon credits to fund forest conservation and community       development.
Mikoko Pamoja is accredited by the charity Plan Vivo and is       managed by a committee of local stakeholders (advised by international       experts).
Our work was the first to develop a technical specification for       the accreditation of mangrove carbon (2011) (using site-specific work       described in section 2).
It is designed to act as a template for future       projects; and has been showcased by the Kenyan government5.1.
Impacts at other sites in East Africa are facilitated through our       networking body, the East African Forum for Payments for Ecosystem       Services (EAFPES) 5.2 and our charity, the Association for       Coastal Ecosystem Services.
The work has funded development including a       new school building (benefitting 600 children), new water pumps (supplying       50 households) and the sponsorship, through primary, secondary and       tertiary education, of dozens of local children.
We worked with Government in pioneering new uses for legal instruments       for community based conservation.
With the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) and       the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute we developed a Community       Forest Association (CFA; established 2012), the first for a mangrove       forest.
Our work contributes to the national plan for the United Nations'       Reduced Emissions from Forest Degradation and Deforestation (REDD)       programme (it is supported by KFS as a demonstration site for this), the       production of a national mangrove management plan, and the identification       of areas of high forest quality and high risk.
Data from ENU work3.2       were requested by the Kenyan Government.
In 2009, we established EAFPES for regional and Africa-wide networking on       payments for ecosystem services (PES) projects to help with co-ordination       of coastal PES projects (particularly those involving `blue carbon' stored       in marine ecosystems).
EAFPES is supported by the UK Government Ecosystem       Services for Poverty Alleviation (ESPA) programme and WWF Kenya.
It has       run workshops aimed at East African managers and stakeholders, drawing on       the work described in section 2, and showcasing the `our ecosystem'       on-line tool that allows managers to assess the value of, and threats, to       their mangrove resource5.3.
It provides a virtual source of       information and networking informed by our research and experience.
ACES       (charity no.
SC043978), established in May 2013, facilitates the flow of       funds from international donors, corporations and individuals for coastal       development and conservation in Africa.
We were invited to the All Party Parliamentary Group on International       Development in February 20125.4, receiving a special       commendation from Stephen O'Brien MP, Minister for International       Development, who wrote: `I found the Making an Impact series informative,       especially noting the innovative engagement with Aviva in the Kenya       mangrove project'.
We presented a keynote at the Aquatic Resources of Kenya 2010 national       conference attended by the Minister for the Environment, which led to a       request for data to inform the national mangrove plan.
We organised a       special session on REDD readiness, carbon credits and mangroves at the       West Indian Ocean Marine Science Association October 2011 conference,       attracting 55 delegates including regional decision-makers and NGOs.
We have had coverage in the Kenyan and UK press (e.g.
BBC 20105.5),       using this to inform and educate but also to help recruit volunteers and       raise charitable funding.
We collaborated with the ASCUS science and art       fund to produce a video drawing on our work on Kenyan experiences and       perspectives on climate change seen by more than 300 people, in Edinburgh,       in February 2012.
Practical conservation outcomes over the past decade (2004-2013) have       included the planting of more than 10,000 mangrove trees and the       restoration of ~20 ha of degraded land5.6, 5.7.
Hundreds of       Kenyan school children have visited our site, and &gt; 40 developing       country researchers have worked with us.
Kenyan scientists, trained to       Masters and PhD level through our project, with funding from charities and       businesses (Aviva Ltd and Zurich International), have progressed to Kenyan       Government and academic positions, vindicating our strategy to strengthen       capacity for mangrove conservation and management within Kenya.
