     Overview     Impact has been achieved in four areas: economic impact for industry;       policy at UK and Scottish Government level; improvement of European       Standards; and raising awareness and understanding of timber-related       issues among the public.
The economic impact comes with environmental       impact as profitability for UK forest industries means more forest       planting, substitution of non-renewable construction materials and reduced       timber miles.
Primary beneficiaries and routes to impact     The primary beneficiaries are UK timber growers and sawmillers.
The       research has been directed by their needs from the establishment of SIRT       in 2003.
An industry sponsor board meets quarterly to discuss the research       work and the network has conferences for sponsors (at least annually) and       industry generally (also at least annually) for knowledge transfer and set       the research agenda to real industry problems.
Sponsor organisations       include the largest UK sawmilling and forestry companies as well as the       Confederation of Forest Industries.
Projects have, to varying degrees,       been co-funded by industry, in many cases, involving industry providing       substantial in-kind support through donation of material, facilities and       staff time for discussion; the primary route for knowledge transfer and       impact.
Knowledge transfer also takes place though events for specific       projects (at least annually) and industry magazines.
Economic and policy impacts     It is not possible to provide a precise value of impact because timber       markets are sensitive to international exchange rates and trends in the       construction sector meaning that the economic differential between graded       timber and rejects (which go to other markets) is volatile.
Production       costs are commercially sensitive, but in 2010, during the construction       recession, it was estimated by industry that the cost of 1% reject       (construction timber sawmilling across the UK) was approximately       &#163;300-500k.
A figure of &#163;400k per percent rejects has been used for the       following value assessments.
The project underpinned development of settings for the latest generation       of X-ray and acoustic grading machines, which has enabled UK (and Irish)       sawmills to use these machines.
These settings have resulted in reduced       reject rates for British spruce.
These settings were approved for       industrial use by the CEN (European Standards) committee in Spring 2011       and used data collected in the preceding 18 months.
Estimated worth across       UK sawmillers: &#163;400-&#163;800k per annum [from F1].
UK sawmilling industry now producing higher grades from UK spruce with no       increase in reject due to these improved machine settings (above).
Industry is only now (summer 2013) putting the combined grading into       practice (it requires changing production lines).
It is too early to       estimate worth, but this is already challenging the misconception (held by       sawmills, merchants and end users) that UK timber cannot achieve such       grades &#8212; improving perception as a construction material [from F1].
Dan Ridley-Ellis is now playing an active role in timber grading       committees at UK (since 2009) and CEN level (since 2011), improving       standards and representing the interests of the UK.
The value of this lies       in preventing problems in standards impacting on UK sawmilling which could       easily cost millions of pounds per year.
For example, arguing against a       mandatory adjustment on measured stiffness (in standard EN384) (that was       shown, thanks to research undertaken, not to work) has saved future       grading settings moving from the currently low proportion of machine       rejects (~2%) up to an unviable 20-30% [from F2].
Grading standards work and underpinning research has also allowed the       University to provide confidence for UK sawmillers in the grading       technology they are currently investing in, and advise on how it can be       best used (2009-current).
"This should have significant financial         impact in the long-term" (Named Timber Consultant #1) [from F1,         F2, F5, F6].
UK tree breeding programmes have refocused to include stiffness (~2011).
The impact is to prevent a future increase in rejects (estimated 3-10% or       &#163;1-4m/year) [F1, F2, F3 and employing F4, F5 	  and F6] The research also allowed advising of policy       makers (via Forestry Commission) on future species planting following       recent outbreaks of tree diseases.
UK industry now using acoustic tools for log segregation and processing       decisions.
Estimated worth of 1% reject or &#163;400k/year [from F6]     There is added impact in involving industry directly with research (an       ongoing process between 2008-now) and encouraging the various growers and       sawmillers to come and work together (at least quarterly) on common       challenges, and focus their attention on future market opportunities that       research enables &#8212; which has resulted in ongoing industry funding.
The research underpinning these impacts is the result of our close       partnership with Forest Research and Glasgow University &#8212; especially       linking of forest and tree level research (led by Forest Research) to the       wood properties research (led by Edinburgh Napier University).
Forest       Research is part of the Forestry Commission &#8212; a devolved government       department in England and Scotland.
Wider impacts -environmental and social     By supporting the UK forest industries and the use of timber (a       sustainable, renewable material) in construction, and reducing wastage of       energy and materials, the research provides benefit to the environment and       the UK economy &#8212; especially in rural areas.
This is the reason why the       research is funded by Forestry Commission and Scottish Enterprise.
The ultimate beneficiaries of the research are the public who use timber       products and benefit from UK forests (the environmental and social       benefits of which are well documented).
Public engagement with aspects of       this research have been enabled through events- producing social impact in       raising awareness of wood science and environmental matters.
They include:     Wood biomechanics in 3D, Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh, 18 July and       21/22 August 2010 (~600 people &#8212; general public)     Fantastic Forests, Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh, 14/15 April 2011       (~1200 people- general public)     Stand-up comedy by researcher Dan Ridley-Ellis on BBC Radio Scotland       (MacAulay and Co 25 May 2012, reach unknown) and Bright Clubs Edinburgh,       Glasgow, Dundee, Stirling, Aberdeen and London performing to a total of       ~1500 people over 13 shows (general public).
(July 2011-Ongoing)
