     Economic Impact:     As indicated in the summary, CardioDigital Ltd, was spun out from the       University in 2001 to commercialise the research and has now become a       world leader in the development and supply of signal analysis solutions       for the medical device industry.
The Company, which is led by Professor       Addison as CEO, is located at the Roslin Biocentre, one of the UK's       leading commercial centres for life science research.
Professor Addison also runs the Covidien R&amp;D facility based at the       Technopole Science Centre in Edinburgh, where over the past five years he       has developed this facility creating high value PhD level jobs.
Close       links are maintained with Covidien in Boulder, Colorado where the       respiratory and monitoring solutions division is headquartered.
Covidien       is a global medical device manufacturer with an annual turnover of $12B, a       presence in over 150 countries and a workforce of 44,000 worldwide and, as       such, has the global reach and commercial muscle to maximise the impact of       the acquired technologies.
The investment by Covidien in Scotland is seen       as a significant economic impact.
CardioDigital Inc., a subsidiary of CardioDigital Ltd, was set up to       commercialise the technologies in the large US market and was the point of       sale for the Covidien deal in 2008.
The technologies sold to Covidien at       that time included methods for determining respiration rate and blood       pressure from a pulse oximeter signal.
Professor Addison became an       employee of Covidien at the time of the sale.
Since 2008, Edinburgh Napier       University, as a key shareholder in the company, has benefited from a       series of dividends resulting from that sale.These payments have been       triggered by the meeting of milestones agreed between Covidien and       CardioDigital as part of the sale agreement.
Health Impact:     The technology has been applied to defibrillation techniques to improve       survival rates following sudden cardiac arrest, with a range of closely       linked pulse oximetry based technologies applicable for general ward use.
The technologies provide both enhanced and extended performance of the       pulse oximeter leading to improved patient care and hospital workflows.
Continuous monitoring of respiration rate is especially important for       adult patients receiving medication for post-operative pain management,       who are at increased risk for respiratory complications.
New conclusions       and recommendations from the US Anaesthesia Patient Safety Foundation       (APSF) suggest continuous electronic monitoring of oxygenation and       ventilation for these patients to reduce the risk of unrecognised,       clinically significant respiratory complications.
The Chief Medical Officer of Respiratory and Monitoring Solutions at       Covidien stated, 28 Nov 2011, "Despite its clinical importance, current       methods of respiration rate monitoring are not always adequate.
The       addition of Respiration Rate to the Covidien Nellcor Respiratory Function       portfolio provides a more holistic monitoring solution using a single,       integrated sensor.
Instead of merely knowing a patient's blood oxygen       levels, we can now look at aspects of ventilation, or the passing of air       into and out of the body.
This gives healthcare professionals a more       complete picture of a patient's respiratory status, so they can provide       effective treatment and maintain patient safety."
In 2011 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted 510(k)       clearance to Covidien to market the Nellcor&#8482; Respiration Rate       Version 1.0 software and the Adult Respiratory Sensor.
In the same year       the respiratory monitoring platform obtained a CE Mark to allow it to       market it throughout the European Economic Area.
Market release of the       product commenced in 2012.
In 2011, Professor Addison gained an Early Stage Innovator Award from       Covidien and won Inventor of the Year award in 2012 for Covidien R&amp;D       projects.
Professor Addison, as inventor, has been granted over 30 US patents and a       further 90 patents have been applied for.
All but three of these have been       written in the past 5 years whilst at Covidien.
All concern novel methods       for biomedical devices.
The majority concern signal processing in a wide       variety of medical signals.
These speak directly to the impact of his work       over the period and also the expected impact over future years.
