     Taxi models enhance the quality of information to guide regulatory policy       decision-making.
Direct impacts include service enhancement,       infrastructure improvement and economic control, examples of which are       described below.
Impact may be controversial when a regulator intervenes in a market to       restrain numbers of licenses issued.
The development of the market model       provides a more thorough test of the impacts than had been in place       previously, creating a stronger justification for policy decisions.
The      TRI model is widely applied in the UK, such as Glasgow, Perth, Aberdeen,       West Dunbartonshire and Stirling, and internationally, particularly in the       USA and Canada.
The Toronto model was developed with a specific view to       identify impacts of introducing accessible vehicles to the taxi fleet, a       relatively rare occurrence in North America.
The Toronto model developed       an enhanced cost model to identify driver cost impacts, and demand model       reflecting changes in the market.
The City's Taxicab Industry Review made       use of the model outputs to support a reform of the licensing law to       include accessibility, set out on the city's website.
As a result       disability access compliant vehicles are available within the standard       `on-demand' taxi fleet, enhancing quality of life for mobility-impaired       clients.
The model identified impacts of growth scenarios and led to the       City committing in 2013 to double the number of accessible vehicles in       time for the Para-Pan-American games being held in 2015.
Furthermore a       long-term requirement for full accessibility was identified by the TRI       model based on predicted annual costs to the trade and benefits to the       public.
The Seattle study was commissioned following the launch of mobile phone       apps providing access to taxi market services.
The city and its hinterland       had been concerned with the declining levels of taxi services, which was       confirmed by TRI investigation research.
Outcomes of the work included       defining a new market equilibrium to increase the taxi service levels to       meet changing urban and rural demand.
The integration, within the TRI taxi       model, of quantity, quality and economic analysis also allowed for       enhanced service levels using a combination of measures.
The initial       outcomes of Seattle indicated a need to combine quantity and quality       controls.
By contrast with Seattle, a focus on economic controls and combinations       of economic and quantity regulations were required by Boston, Chicago, and       San Diego.
The San Diego project is ongoing and is expected to provide a       standardized fare allowing reduction in the number of excess fares being       charged, a practice known locally as fare gouging.
The Boston analysis       focused on the measurement of driver income, a contentious issue in the       city, with a number of claims being put forward in the Boston Globe       newspaper suggesting that drivers were receiving third world       wages.
The TRI research identified a measure of driver income       and economic rent charged in the industry, contributing to the Boston       Police Department's review of market controls.
Other similar benefits       arise in the application of the model in Chicago, identifying actual       driver income as an element in determining fare policy, and are repeated       in San Diego.
Finally, meter rate structures that encourage use, and are       achieved without resulting in excess costs, impacts beneficially on the       taxi-using public.
Stand location models developed for Northern Ireland, the Republic of       Ireland, Aberdeen and Perth allow the location of taxi-stands to be       determined by actual demand, rather than historic decisions.
On-the-ground       issues included the location of stands that are difficult of access,       physically inappropriate to wheelchair users, or not served by the trade.
While incorporation of information about stand location contributes       directly to the wider demand model it is also appropriate in fine- tuning       infrastructure.
The stand location model, which particularly benefits       wheelchair users, has been applied in Glasgow, in relation to traffic       signal timings at the Central Station taxi stand, across the cities of       Belfast and other Irish cities, Aberdeen and Perth, and is in development       for San Diego.
The model benefits wheelchair users, and the wider public.
