     Introduction: Icopal were chosen as industry partner due to their       global lead in geo-membranes and crucially the UK Manchester plant could       manufacture the alumite-bitumen compounds required for the thin membrane       technology.
This impact case study outlines the substantial benefits to       the company, industry sector, environment and home occupants quality of       life as a result of this original research.
The Napier team also developed       animations to assist installation training for both Bridestop&#169; and Wallcap       series of products which can be viewed via reference [5.1].
Impact period 2008-2013: In 2008 brownfield sites accounted for       over 70% of new housing sites and raft foundations were increasingly       common.
In 2008 the Napier team assisted Icopal-Monarfloor to commence       application for Robust Detail status for Bridgestop&#169;.
This would allow       entry into the Robust Detail Handbook, which is used by over 8,000       specifiers and designers across the new build housing sector.
Bridgestop&#169;       achieved on site field trials with an average sound insulation performance       of 10 dB (decibels) better than building standards, providing the highest       levels of sound insulation for new housing.
The Bridgestop&#169; isolator       system for raft foundations was awarded Robust Detail status and published       in October 2008 (reference E-WM-19) [5.2].
The sustainable construction       benefits [5.2] which when applied over the 15,000 homes built during the       REF impact period has avoided using 1,080 tonnes of additional gypsum       lining (72 kg per attached home) to achieve the equivalent sound       insulation performance.
Thus also delivering resource efficiencies in       materials, transport and carbon.
In 2010 Bridgestop&#169; was the first wall       structure to receive the maximum four credits under the Code for       Sustainable Homes under Health and Wellbeing for sound insulation [5.3].
Many supply chain partners benefited from the system including Wimpey       Homes and Roger Bullivant Ltd [5.2, 5.3].
In 2010 Bridgestop&#169; was       shortlisted by industry peers for UK Housing Innovation Product of the       Year [5.4].
The extension of thin membranes to apartment upper wall-floor junctions       (termed Wallcap) was supported by the first ever Scottish Enterprise Proof       of Concept Award for construction sector in March 2008 &#8212; illustrated by       reference code 8-CON-001.
Wallcap was licensed to Icopal-Monarfloor in       2009 and was shortlisted for UK Housing Innovation Product of the Year in       2012 [5.5].
Wallcap also complies with the `effective edge seal'       requirements for the Part L thermal regulations to tackle cavity thermal       bypass [5.6] which can reduce heat loss by 20% in attached housing.
The       Napier design of the isolators was such that the Manchester production       line produces zero waste.
The cavity wall base is also lined with an       acoustic isolator involving recycled foam to prevent any mortar drops       bridging the cavity party walls.
Due to the resilience of the       alumite-bitumen compound within the Bridgestop&#169; dpc material it can also       act as a methane and radon barrier and also protect such barriers which       may be placed below the Bridgestop preventing them being damaged or torn       [5.7].
This benefits home occupants and benefits the intended full life       cycle of the construction.
Enhancement of Icopal's existing thin membrane patented technology was       strengthened as a result of the work with Edinburgh Napier [5.8].
These       products are now used by aggregate block, aircrete, timber frame and steel       frame industry sectors.
The KTP project with Icopal-Monarfloor delivered       more than three times the estimated turnover and led to over 50% of       company profits stemming from these Napier designed products.
In May 2013       the KTP was classified by the Technology Strategy Board as "outstanding"       and nominated for national KTP awards 2013.
[5.9]     Icopal-Monarfloor (UK) is working with the Icopal global group to develop       similar isolator solutions for wider international markets.
9 new products       have emerged from the Napier research with a further 4 planned for launch       in 2014.
New industry supply chain partnerships and joint ventures between       Icopal-Monarfloor and other companies have since been formed including UK       and other multinational companies (e.g.
Knauf).
The research team have presented their findings to over 200 companies at       industry seminars and exhibited at Ecobuild, Futurebuild and the Edinburgh       Science Festival.
Finally one of the most powerful statements of the       benefits from the original research is provided from the company: "The         average cost saving on substructure costs, by using Bridgestop and not         having to undertake expensive alternative build systems is 18%.
This has         since been used in over 15,000 homes across the UK saving &#163;80 million in         build costs by not having to build alternative constructions involving         deeper foundations, secondary suspended floors or additional gypsum         linings which has also resulted in substantial sustainability benefits."
Lee Nichols, Product Development Manager, Icopal Monarfloor.
