     (Impact 1 Public Service: Public artwork reduction in traffic accidents)     In May 2012, Kent County Council published a statistical report on the       `Breaking Boundaries' shared space scheme.
The report provides statistical       analysis on safety for the three years prior to the project (2004 to 2006)       and three years after project completion (2008 to 2011).
In this document,       safety is statistically defined by: personal injury crashes, casualties       (involving pedestrians, cycles), and the number of vehicles involved.
"The Ashford ring road scheme... has achieved a 41% reduction in crashes       involving personal injuries overall, and a 63% reduction in those       involving pedestrians.
Within the Shared Space itself, the reductions are       50% and 83% respectively."
White, Bob (2012) [5.1]     Statistical evidence supports the view that vehicular and pedestrian       traffic benefit from the implementation of this shared space scheme in       Ashford.
The neighbourhoods either side of what was the ring road now have       a shared space allowing them access to the town rather than a dual       carriageway separating them from the town.
The community is now rid of       railings, subways and limited designated spaces for crossing a busy       highway, for a 20 mph shared space, allowing them to access the town from       a variety of vantage points.
(Impact 2: Civil Society: Participatory public artworks that enable       critical public engagement and demonstrates arts role in the creation of       civil society)     Jordan, (with Beech and Hewitt) developed a solo exhibition commissioned       by the Collective Gallery Edinburgh, UK.
The exhibition, titled How to         be Hospitable, included five new artworks and a documentary video of       the participants who had participated in its creation.
The exhibition was       one of five off-site projects that sought to engage new audiences and       communities within a one-mile radius of the gallery.
In evaluating its       achievements The Scottish Arts Council concluded that, "The Freee art         collective's (Jordan, Beech and Hewitt) exhibition, under the aegis of         the One Mile programme, is a laudable attempt to engage new audiences         and communities via innovative and experimental projects" Stephen       Beddoe (ACS Report, 2008) [5.2].
Futurology: The Black Country 2024 makes a material contribution       to public awareness and participatory practice, as its creation was a       participatory art project, in which artists, theorists and young people       collaborated to examine the current social, economic and political       conditions in the Black Country in order to imagine their futures.
The       premise of the research was to create a new relationship between leaders       of the regeneration project in the Black Country and those affected by       this planning scheme; the project operated as a forum in which all       stakeholders contributed.
Five schools took part in the project, and each       school was allocated an artist to work with.
Together with New Art       Gallery, Walsall, the project was funded by Creative Partnerships, whose       evaluation report stated:     "The influence of the artist changed the way the students thought         about their area and the potential for change.
It had also clearly led         them to identify and reflect upon others' complacency, not as a fault,         but as being born out of having not had such stimulus.".
(Hall,       2005).
[5.3]     (Impact 3.
Influencing Policy &#8212; making: a contribution to policy debates       concerning public art's function for social and economic regeneration.
).
Futurology: The Black Country 2024 achieved influence on public       policy debates, as Jordan spoke about the methods that were devised in the       project at the symposium `Space to think &#8212; Does every child matter in         socially engaged practice?
What does true collaboration with young         people look like?'.
This Creative Partnerships seminar was promoted       as a `space to think' and a forum for representatives from the creative,       cultural, education sectors and business to discuss a broad range of       issues concerning creativity and learning [5.4], [5.5].
Atkin as one of the Integrated Design Team (IDT) defined process and       research through meetings and workshops, (2005 - 2010), including       community consultation and mentoring schemes.
The level of impact was       achieved by establishing an Integrated Design Team (IDT) at the point of       project ignition.
Artists, highway engineers, landscape architects,       lighting designers, traffic planners and urban designers all worked       together to deliver the artistic, pragmatic, legal and functional aspects       of the project.
Thus ensuring delivery of a cohesive series of public       realm spaces, following the principles of sharing space equally between       pedestrians, cyclists and motorists.
Atkin (et al) established a Champions Group (CG) comprising IDT members       as well as representatives from Ashford's Future to look at the commercial       and business component of the project.
The CG also comprised members of       Ashford Borough Council (ABC): Disability Groups: Community       representation: Sustainability representation: Emergency Service       representation.
The CG met once a month with agenda items evaluating       progress of the scheme and forward planning actions.
