     Policy briefings held between 2008-11 with the Scottish and UK Government       and leading charities,       such as the Esm&#233;e Fairbairn Foundation and Association for Sustainable       Communities, have       allowed Professor Deakin to produce a set of Guidelines for         Socially-inclusive Visioning in the         Community-based Approach to Sustainable Urban Regeneration.
The Planning         Journal's       (30/09/2009) review of these guidelines highlighted the need for       stakeholders involved in urban       regeneration to:     "...upgrade their skills and engage with communities in a vision that         is less utopian and is         grounded in their social and material needs [something] which requires a         new mindset, involves         planners getting off the treadmill of bureaucracy and putting themselves         closer to the communities         they are seeking to promote."
[5.1]     These guidelines underpin the urban regeneration strategies and support       the sustainable       community development initiatives both Scotland and the UK have adopted to       alleviate poverty,       enhance welfare and bring about improvements in education and wealth       [5.2].
The decision-       support system assembled to underpin these urban regeneration strategies       and support their       sustainable community development initiatives, provides the "material"       needed and "new mind set"       required for planners to get "closer to the communities they are         seeking to promote".
It achieves       this by providing both the learning material needed and knowledge       management system required       for the public to join Community Councils and Neighbourhood Management       Boards as members of       Urban Regeneration Partnerships [5.3, 5.4 &amp; 5.5].
In Craigmillar, Edinburgh and Attwood Green, Birmingham, the Urban       Regeneration Partnerships       learn about social needs and gain knowledge of the respective communities'       welfare requirements       by way of public consultations and through deliberations.
These public       consultations and       deliberations provide Community Councils and Neighbourhood Management       Boards with the civic       decision-making powers, budgets, resources, skills and competencies needed       to meet the value       adding and cost saving requirements of public service improvement       programmes.
This has been       achieved by way of Community Policing Strategies, through Work Programmes       and the       construction of Home Zones.
These Home Zones provide for the construction       of over 2,000       affordable homes (of mixed income and tenure), with supporting schools,       learning centres and       health facilities.
Official government statistics (Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation:       2004, 2006, 2009 and 2012:       http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Topics/Statistics/SIMD),       show that the impact of these interventions on       the social need and welfare requirements of Craigmillar is marked.
In       2004, 60% of Craigmillar's       data-zones ranked within the 15% most deprived in Scotland; whereas by       2012 this had fallen to       38%.
Relative improvements are also evident in the domains of income and       employment, where       85% of the data-zones in 2012 now show improvement in the income domain       and 62% in the       employment domain.
There has been a further 11% decrease in the number of       people claiming       health-related benefits between 2009 and 2012 and in terms of educational       attainment; there has       been a 60% increase in performance scores at SQA Level 4 between 2009 and       2012.
The rate of       pupil absences is also down by 9% on 2009 figures.
Crime is also down,       with 28% fewer crimes       per 10,000 in 2012 compared with 2009.
This means that in 2012 over 60% of       the official data sets       used to calculate the impact which poverty alleviation strategies and       welfare-related initiatives have       in Scotland now indicate Craigmillar shows a marked improvement.
Deakin reported on the success of this urban regeneration to the Scottish       Government in May       2011 as part of their ongoing review of the Sustainable Community       Initiative and ADI's       (Architecture and Design Scotland's) monitoring of the Sustainable       Development Strategy.
This       evaluation provided evidence to support the claims that policy briefings,       guidelines and decision-support       systems do provide the instruments needed for the public to directly       participate in urban       regeneration, not only by way of consultations and deliberations, but       through the civic decision-making       powers, budgeting and allocation of resources which are also required for       them to be       competent in promoting sustainable community development [5.6].
The long-term (2008-13) effect of what EUROCities defines as: "these         high impact services", have       acted to augment these "grass roots" and "bottom-up" improvements in urban       regeneration and for       the Cities of Edinburgh, Amsterdam, Groningen, Kortrijk, Bremerhaven,       Osterholt-Scharmbeck,       Karlstad, Kristiansand and Norwich, to mainstream sustainable community       developments across       Europe [5.7 &amp; 5.8].
The impacts associated with this rapid       proto-typing of 24 public services       (covering safety and security, employment, health, education, transport       and mobility), have in turn       generated the intelligence community organisations, charities and       voluntary groups need to be       smart in integrating the core value adding and cost-saving requirements of       such a trans-national       programme into the European Network of Living Lab's (ENoLL's) model of       sustainable community       development [5.9 &amp; 5.10].
