     This research has demonstrated impact at the micro, meso and macro levels       of the labour movement; first in terms of individual union projects within       communities; second through the development of regional alliances and       projects with the Yorkshire and the Humber regional TUC; and finally by       contributing to the development of National TUC policy towards engagement       with migrant workers and a community engagement approach.
Different unions implemented the five recommendations resulting from the       Bradford research in different ways with the overarching goal of building       alliances within the community and establishing community links.
The       research report and recommendations led to UNITE employing a full-time       community co-ordinator based in the Yorkshire and the Humber region.
This       co-ordinator set up branches and is currently collaborating with regional       Citizens' Advice Bureaux.
As a result of this research, the GMB within the       region recruited a part-time officer to implement these changes within the       region.
Using information and recommendations from the research report,       `Leeds Trades Union Council' held a stall at the `Leeds West Indian       Carnival', to disseminate information and build community links.
This       impact was replicated at the `Bradford Mela' and `One Sheffield Many       Cultures' (a).
The second and third research reports had considerable impact at the meso       level as the regional TUC took forward proposals in terms of regional       level alliances led by the TUC and alliances around anti-fascism campaigns       within the region.
The report entitled "Social Inclusion and         Representation Strategies in the Workplace and Community: BME Workers         and Innovative Trade Union Responses" forms part of the regional       TUC's strategic policy work-plan (May 2013).
It has been, and continues to       be used to provide the basis for an innovative collaboration between the       regional TUC, Leeds Citizen's Advice Bureau and Leeds Credit Union (a), to       provide alternative financial assistance and information to the local       community, so that the TUC can help those most adversely affected by cuts,       especially BME groups and young people.
The TUC are planning similar       projects for other localities within the Yorkshire and Humber region.
In terms of anti-fascist campaigning, the regional TUC used the lists of       potential collaborative partners and best practice case studies presented       in the reports as a basis for involvement and initial contact with a range       of community groups.
A Black Workers' Forum convenor has been appointed to       take the `anti-racist work' forward and develop links between the forum       members, anti-fascist groups, community learning centres and other       regional communities.
This has led to high profile marches and       demonstrations around the region.
Research recommendations also informed specific projects around       anti-racism.
For example, the Black Workers' Forum Convenor connected the       BME community in Leeds with the Professional Footballers' Association to       promote links between the trade unions and BME communities through       5-a-side football teams.
A presentation by `Show Racism the Red Card' was       given on behalf of the forum at the Black History Month event in Leeds in       2012.
Finally, as a result of the project research findings, the regional       TUC became involved with `The Citizen's League', co-ordinated by a former       MP for Leeds West.
The regional general secretary of the TUC says, "The         results of the [research] reports have been especially useful to this         Forum in developing this work and its promotion across our regional         communities...
The findings have been invaluable in enabling the TUC in         Yorkshire and the Humber to re-establish community links; to promote the         work of individual trade unions within the region and to introduce new         members" (a).
Finally at the macro level, reports were presented to the General       Secretary of the National TUC.
The reports produced national impact by       informing national policy.
Recommendations were incorporated in a national       policy document designed to change the labour movements' approach to       engaging with minority ethnic communities (b).
Reflecting on the `Swords of Justice' document the Senior Policy Advisor       for the TUC states that, "there has been a long-standing positive         impact of the academic work of Dr Rob Perrett and Professor Miguel         Martinez Lucio on building the capacity of the TUC and the wider union         movement to improve its representation of black and minority (BME)         members and to increase union involvement within the BME community.
This         has positively impacted on TUC policy and practice in this sphere at         both the regional and national level" (c).
As a result of their research, in 2012, Perrett, Martinez Lucio and       others founded the Voice and Equality Research and Action Network (VERN)       with the aim of providing a democratic and radically innovative space for       debate on the collective dynamics within BME communities, bringing       together academics, government and trade unions (d).
The research at Bradford has also had a significant influence on learning       opportunities for BME communities provided by the TUC, and on the       recognition of the skills, qualification and experience of migrant       workers, through reports containing specific recommendations (e).
These       recommendations have significantly influenced the policies and practice of       UnionLearn, the organization established by the TUC to provide ongoing       support for union-led learning in England (e).
