     The impact of the research is evident in changes to public policy in       Scotland and Northern Ireland on improving employment outcomes for       disadvantage groups specifically lone parents, carers and those with low       levels of qualifications.
For people seeking a return to the labour       market, there has also been a positive impact on quality of life by       improving access to employment The ERI designed and implemented a       Management Information System for WFF that was used to analyse data on       clients registered on the programme.
This enabled the ERI to provide       real-time feedback to local authorities responsible for delivering the WFF       programme.
The continuous evaluation and collation of data by the ERI       enabled monitoring of client progress and the identification of relevant       forms of support required by WFF clients.
The ERI conducted training       events for local authority key workers with responsibility for WFF       implementation that enabled workers to maximise the impact and reach of       the programme.
The ERI's role contributed to 53% of all WFF clients       (13,594) achieving a hard outcome (e.g.
a move into work or training) and       a further 13% (3,283) achieving other significant outcomes (e.g.
improvements in employability or increased confidence).
Downstream of the       policy process, the ERI evaluation was able to cite evidence from lone       parents whose engagement with the WFF programme had made a significant       positive impact on their quality of life: "It's made me feel that there is       more to life than just being in the house and stick on benefits, there is       a lot more to life, and I just want to give the children a better life."
(WFF client, East Ayrshire); "It's been a great help.
It wouldn't have       been possible for me to get back to work without help with childcare       costs."
(WFF client, Highlands).
These findings have subsequently impacted the current Scottish Government       Child Poverty Strategy for Scotland (2011) that highlights the findings of       the ERI WFF evaluation: `A number of these local (employability) pipelines       have embedded the Working for Families model which identifies difficulties       in accessing affordable and quality childcare as a significant barrier to       employment and provides a range of support and referrals to address this'       (see 5.7).
Findings from the ERIs WFF evaluation have also informed the       Scottish Government's Employability Framework (see 5.10).
The Framework       emphasises the role of childcare `in supporting the development and       wellbeing of children, in allowing parents to work in order to provide       economic security for their families, and, in cases of workless families,       in offering routes out of welfare and poverty'.
ERI research for the Department for Employment and Learning in Northern       Ireland (DELNI) also applied the employability framework to produce       effective employment policies.
The report, although published in 2007,       impacted on employment policy in 2010.
Through interviews with Public       Employment Services across the EU, the ERI produced a series of       recommendations for improving co-operation across agencies involved in the       delivery of employment policy.
Recommendations included: the co-location       of services for the unemployed; improving partnership working across       government departments and agencies; pooling resources across departments       to maximise their impact.
The office of the Northern Ireland Advisor on       Employment and Skills adopted these recommendations in their report (see       5.6) on tackling unemployment and promoting economic growth: `Improving       linkages between government departments, agencies and local authorities       has been identified as an important mechanism in which to help improve the       service offered to unemployed and inactive clients.
Research from the       Employment Research Institute at Napier University compared forms of       inter-agency co-operation, and identified strengths and weaknesses in       different partnership models'.
In 2012 the ERI was commissioned by DELNI to provide an analysis of how       multiple cross-cutting issues prevent the economically inactive from       seeking work and provided a baseline against which DELNI could measure       progress.
The report (see 5.3) identified policy lessons on effective       forms of employment support for disabled people and those with care       responsibilities.
Professor McQuaid presented results of the report at a       research seminar held by Analytical Services within DELNI on the 22nd May       2013 and attended by senior civil servants.
The report was also discussed       in the Northern Ireland Assembly on the Committee for Employment and       Learning on the 8th May 2013 where it was stated that the ERI had enabled       DELNI to target support to specific client groups: `Two groups emerged       from the baseline study as requiring additional help through being       inactive because of particularly difficult circumstances: those out of       work because of ill health or disability; and those who have caring       responsibilities for children, particularly lone parents...So the baseline       study suggests that, if we are to have a new strategy and do new things,       we should concentrate our efforts on those two groups'.
(Official Report       Hansard.
8th May 2013, Committee for Employment and Learning)     In addition to policy impacts in Scotland and Northern Ireland, the ERI       has contributed to the development of employability policy in England       through the publication of a report in 2010 commissioned by the Joseph       Rowntree Foundation (see 5.4).
The JRF report identified why disadvantaged       parents move into poverty and what barriers prevent them escaping the       low-pay/no-pay cycle.
This report was cited by HM Treasury, The Department       for Children, Schools and Families and the Department for Work and       Pensions on policy to reduce child poverty: `Recent research indicates       that parents' employment decisions are influenced by the type of       employment available, the financial benefits of moving into work,       including concerns about financial insecurity or loss of benefits, the       costs and nature of childcare available, and perceptions about all these       considerations' (see 5.4).
In addition to impacts on public policy, the ERI has also sought to raise       awareness and understanding among the general public on issues raised by       their research.
ERI Director Professor McQuaid, was interviewed by BBC       Radio Scotland and featured on the BBC News website to discuss the issues       of childcare as a barrier to employment (see 5.8).
Professor McQuaid was       also interviewed on the 18th March 2012 edition of the influential BBC One       Scotland news programme `Sunday Politics' (see 5.9).
