     The work referred to in this case has had policy impacts, health       benefits, social and economic impacts.
From Gayen's original work in 2000-2004 and consequent papers the       importance was demonstrated of Family Welfare Assistants to rural       Bangladeshi women's health by advising on contraception and ensuring       professional medical help was sought rather than relying on traditional       healers.
The Family Welfare Assistant programme was discontinued in 2003       but, after lobbying, the Government of Bangladesh reintroduced the       programme in 2004 and introduced the "Info Ladies" in 2012 where women       travelled to villages with web connected laptops to enhance the       connectivity of women.
The research contributed and enhanced the case       forwarded by DNET, the organisation promoting the new programme.
The       impact was the contribution to ideational change in Bangladesh and allowed       modern approaches to public health to reach rural women in Bangladesh.
To       disseminate this work, Raeside gave three seminars in Bangladesh which       were attended by policy makers and academics (at each seminar around 30       attended and of these around 10 senior civil servants and government       officials attended), [for corroboration see 5.1, 5.2].
In 2009, research       conducted by Gayen, Elliot and Raeside with CREA, a drug rehabilitation       centre in Dhaka, provided evidence to the Bangladeshi police to change       their policy of managing heroin users in slum areas.
On finding a       drug-using group, the police had a policy of dispersing group members.
However SNA based research showed that the drug-using groups were very       cohesive and isolated themselves from the rest of society.
By scattering       group members, risky behaviour e.g.
drug injecting was spread into the       wider drug using community.
As a consequence of this research the policy       of scattering group members was discontinued in 2011.
This approach helps       protect drug-using groups who do not inject from being influenced by those       from groups where they engaged in riskier behaviours.
Gayen T provided an       important role in lobbying for change and was awarded UNAID's award in       2013 for excellence in Leadership in the National AIDS Response in       Implementation of Injecting Drug User's program [see 5.3 for evidence].
Pearson developed methods facilitating the longitudinal study of networks       which enhanced the understanding of peer group influence and selection in       substance abuse (publication 3.3).
From this, and collaboration with       Steglich (University of Groningen) and Snijiders (University of Oxford),       advice to Government and medical policy was generated to reduce substance       abuse through the targeting of and intervention by key individuals       identified through their role within the mechanisms of influence and       selection.
This work is part of the ESF European Collaborative Research       Project "Dynamics of Actors and Networks across Levels: Individuals,       Groups, Organizations, and Social Settings" and has social network       sociological and business applications.
The research conducted by Gayen, Raeside and McQuaid that undertook       investigation in Edinburgh on how the networks of people aged over 50 who       had been made redundant might influence the chances of being re-employed       was widely reported in the press [see 5.4] and the importance of fostering       active networks has been recognised by the City of Edinburgh council in       their City for All Ages programme to enhance the active involvement of       older people in the community and improve their wellbeing.
This work was       the basis of seminars given by Raeside to the Faculty of Actuaries       (attended by around 50 delegates) as part of their continuing professional       development programme.
In 2006 to 2009 as part of his PhD supervised by Raeside, Hancock used an       SNA approach to show that educational programmes in a Scottish prison were       effective in helping to reduce recidivism.
This has now been incorporated       into Scottish Government policy [see 5.5].
In 2008 to 2010, Pow, in       conjunction with Elliot and Raeside, applied an SNA approach to develop a       methodology to evaluate the effectiveness of "Healthy Respect", a       programme of connecting together organisations providing information and       assistance to young people particularly in regard to sexual health.
The       method developed can now be applied to other evaluation programmes, [see       5.6].
Research on the application of SNA continues via a Knowledge Transfer       Partnership in April 2012 with an Edinburgh business (GamesAnalytics) and       has enabled the company to rapidly grow in size, almost doubling in terms       of revenue and number of employees between April 2012 and October 2013,       [see corroboration 5.7].
Pearson as part of his work to develop a European       Business Network produced methods to improve the supply chain of       participating companies in trade between Baltic countries and the East       Coast of the UK.
This was launched at a conference in 2012, [see       corroboration 5.8] and a self-assessment tool was created which has proven       to be of great value [5.9].
The work on SNA helped to secure participation in two FP7 EU projects       (numbers 244909 and 320136) of which the ERI's share is around &#163;180,000       and &#163;200,000).
These projects are to investigate young peoples' transition       into work and to effectively function in society.
This research is       confirming the importance of support networks (other individuals or       institutions) to enhance the likelihood of a positive outcome for young       people.
