     As summarised in Section 1, this research has had impact in the following       four areas:     1.
The work of the UN CDM Executive Board:     In 2011, the UN CDM Executive Board (EB), which is the highest       governmental decision-making       body on carbon markets, held a closed retreat to discuss challenges facing       the CDM in the wake of       a series of crises engulfing global carbon markets.
A briefing note on       Newell's research was       produced for this retreat, following an invitation to `well-known leaders       and thinkers in this area'       [see Section 5, C1].
This was shared with Board members and made a `key       contribution' to       ensuring the success of the retreat [C2].
The most significant outcome of       the retreat was       agreement to launch a Policy Dialogue on the CDM.
2.
The UN's Policy Dialogue on the CDM:     Newell's engagement with this Policy Dialogue process involved: the       formal submission of       evidence to the Dialogue Panel; the distribution of this evidence to a       range of governmental and       non-governmental stakeholders, including the UK government and the then       chair of the CDM EB       who participated in a public debate about the research [C3]; the       dissemination of academic       publications to many of the same stakeholders; and various presentations,       including the May 2012       UN climate change negotiations in Bonn, at an event organised by the NGO CDM         Watch [C4].
The       chair and discussant at this event, who were both members of the CDM       Policy Dialogue High-Level 	  Panel, directly engaged with the evidence presented and expressed       their commitment to       take forward its findings [C5].
This engagement activity in turn had the       following impact:     (i) UK government submission: The research and formal evidence       were extensively drawn upon by       the UK Department for International Development in its submission to the       Policy Dialogue.
This       submission called for efforts to improve the governance of the CDM,       including an appeals       mechanism; improved local consultation and stakeholder engagement,       including the promotion of       best practice; ex-post assessments of the sustainable development       contributions of projects; and       sanctions for projects failing to deliver these outcomes.
These proposals       drew heavily upon and       directly mirrored those called for in Newell's research and submission to       the Dialogue Panel [C6].
(ii) Policy Dialogue paper on governance: Significant traces of       Newell's research are evident in a       key Policy Dialogue report.
This report recommended that the CDM EB       `assist DNAs (Designated       National Authorities) in coordinating more effective local stakeholder       consultations and improve the       accountability of project proponents to local communities throughout CDM       project design and       implementation' [C7].
This recommendation directly mirrored Newell's       proposal for an alternative       CDM governance process based on clear national development strategies,       common guidance on       public consultation, strengthened DNA capacity, and continuous monitoring       and ex-post validation       [C4].
(iii) Final reports: Likewise, the final Synthesis Report of the       Dialogue process reproduced several       of the main findings of Newell's research.
This includes statements that       `[M]ost studies employ       varying criteria to assess impacts and occasionally lack any ex-post       assessments, relying on       information provided by project developers when requesting registration,       rather than on post-implementation 	  data'; that `[C]omparison of projects across different       countries shows that their       contribution to sustainable development depends both on project type and       host country'; and that       `[s]ome stakeholders indicate that the capacity of host countries to       follow-up on the initial       assessment of a project's contribution to sustainable development is       limited given the paucity of       resources in many cases' [C8].
Key recommendations from Newell's research       also featured       prominently in the Final Report of the High-Level Panel, including its       call for the CDM to       `strengthen and restructure its governance' by `enhancing its openness and       transparency, and       opportunities for stakeholder participation, creating avenues to hear       appeals and address       grievances'.
This included the increased monitoring of sustainable       development benefits, efforts to       strengthen national capacity in this regard, sanctions in cases of harm       caused by projects, and       guidelines on adequate local consultation procedures.
Echoing the       recommendations of the       research, it is stated that `There is a clear need to improve the       reporting, monitoring, and       verification of the sustainable development impacts of CDM projects, and       to implement safeguards       against projects with negative impacts' [C9].
In the wake of this Final Report and the pressure generated by       researchers and NGOs, state       Parties to the UN climate negotiations called on the CDM EB to act.
It did       so by approving a       voluntary tool for describing sustainable development co-benefits of CDM       projects at its 70th Board       meeting in November 2012, moving away from original opposition to       acceptance of an additional       tool for recording such benefits.
In light of the shortcomings highlighted       by this and other research,       the CDM EB has also sought to encourage governments to share experiences       of local consultation       processes.
3.
Advisory and training work:     Newell has also undertaken extensive advisory and training work, with       impacts on policy       processes.
For example, Newell serves as Senior Policy Advisor on the UK       Department of Energy       and Climate Change's (DECC's) International Climate Fund, in which       capacity he has served as an       evaluator of business cases for the joint DFID/DECC Carbon Markets Finance       initiative and has       provided input which has had direct impacts on the design and development       of this initiative, aimed       at improving the development benefits of CDM projects [C10].
He has also provided training for various policy bodies on the CDM, some       of which have, in turn,       had direct impact.
For example, Newell participated in a training session       for the Commonwealth       Parliamentary Association, at the end of which the parliamentarians       attending issued a       communiqu&#233; calling for tougher action on climate change which specifically       emphasised the `risks       from international carbon trading mechanisms' highlighted by Newell [C11].
4.
Public awareness of the shortcomings of carbon markets:     Key findings from Newell's research have been extensively covered in all       forms of mass media.
Leading broadsheets covering the research have included The Guardian,       The Times of South         Africa and The Financial Times, for whom Newell produced an       interactive guide on climate politics       in the run-up to the December 2011 Durban conference.
The research has       been covered on       numerous TV and radio channels, including Sky News, BBC News 24,       BBC Radio 2 and BBC       World in Spanish, which featured a full-page story on Newell's       research [C12].
Newell's research       has also featured in the `The Carbon Con' documentary, which was       screened at the Durban       conference at a side-event with panel discussion organised by CDM Watch,       and has been       downloaded from YouTube and other media over 3,000 times [C13].
Newell's       research has also       been widely cited and drawn upon by advocacy NGOs working on change       issues, including the       Rainforest Foundation, the Global Forest Coalition and The Corner House in       the UK [C14].
