     Schwan's historical research produced insights into restrictions placed       on prisoner communication, access to reading and writing materials.
Research on contemporary partnerships between universities and penal       institutions revealed a continuing need for literacy education and the       benefits of creative activities amongst prisoners.
These findings resulted       in a volunteering scheme at HMP Edinburgh.
Since November 2011, Schwan has       been overseeing a project offering placements at the prison's learning       centre.
Up until 31 July 2013, ten final-year students on English degrees       have participated in six-week placements, working alongside prison       education staff for half a day a week.
Activities varied depending on       institutional requirements and student expertise, including one-to-one       literacy work and creative writing, with male and female prisoners.
Typically, a student volunteer was assigned 1-3 prisoners within a larger       group; due to turnover in the centre, students sometimes worked with       different individuals from week to week.
In total, approximately 25       prisoners have benefited.
Initially, the scheme was run as a pilot, agreed       with local management and Fife College (the contracted learning provider       at HMP Edinburgh).
After a successful pilot in 2011/2, the project was       formally approved by SPS HQ and written into the contract of delivery       between Fife College and the SPS.
In the year of its inception, the project was favourably mentioned in the       Annual Report of the Edinburgh Prison Visiting Committee for the year       ending 31 March 2012 [5.4].
The Report notes that the project "provided       some prisoners with individual literacy support," thus helping to "fill       some of the gap in literacy support" after the withdrawal of funding for       "Clan Literacy" from April 2011.
Detailing the positive effect of       individualised support through a particular volunteer, one prison teacher       remarked how the student "helped one prisoner who is dyslexic, patiently       and the prisoner was delighted with the support" [5.5].
The project's       impact and added value is also demonstrated by another student's comment       that he "was able to offer assistance to one inmate who was attempting a       design project that was beyond the computer skill-set of the tutor" [5.5].
This indicates that prisoners and learning centre benefit intellectually       and materially through the volunteers' skill and expertise, which are       offered for free.
The Visiting Committee's Report notes that the scheme also helps create       foundations "to educate future professionals about working in prison       education" [5.4: 4.5.6, p. 15].
The volunteers therefore act as       multipliers benefitting prisoners they are working with, but also in the       sense that volunteers may have potential future impact as practitioners in       related fields.
One student commented that "[t]he placement reinforced       interest in adult based work with creative literacy" and that he would       "consider the sessional employment in the prison as additional work"       [5.5].
Other corroborating statements have been sought, but, due to the       rigorous confidentiality issues surrounding Her Majesty's Prisons, this       information is not available for public dissemination.
Additionally the impact can be measured through the ways in which       Schwan's organisation of and appearances at events attended by       practitioners and professionals working in the prison system have       contributed to raising awareness and understanding of the research's       objectives and the prison project's practicalities.
Schwan's research and       its application to a local prison context were consolidated at the       international conference "Reading and Writing in Prison" (Edinburgh Napier       June 2010).
This event was attended by around 50 participants, including       one representative of the Scottish Book Trust; two members of Stirling       Council and Stirling Libraries; one representative from SPS HQ and a       Prison Governor; the Assistant Head of School for Communities and Learner       Development at Fife College [5.2]; ten creative practitioners and       educators working in the Scottish or English prison systems; two former       prisoners, one of whom is also a Guardian journalist; one       journalist (Literary Editor of Scotland on Sunday).
One       participant (Readers &amp; Writers in Prisons Programme Officer at English       PEN) wrote after the event: "I enjoyed the conference and met and heard       some fascinating speakers" [5.6].
In September 2012, Schwan was an invited panellist at the Arts and       Humanities Research Council-funded symposium on "Prison Reading Groups"       (University of Roehampton) to present Edinburgh Napier's volunteering       project.
Circa 70 people attended the event, the majority of whom were       volunteers facilitating reading groups in English prisons, journalists,       publishers, creative practitioners, prison librarians and representatives       of charities such as the Prisoners' Education Trust.
The event afforded       Schwan with an opportunity to raise awareness of the volunteering scheme       amongst a wider community of stakeholders in penal systems beyond       Scotland.
Schwan's presentation resulted in an invitation to contribute a       piece &#8212; co-authored by prisoners and volunteers &#8212; about the volunteering       scheme for the "Learning Matters" Newsletter of the Charity The Prisoners'       Education Trust (awaiting approval by the SPS's Communications       Department).
As demonstrated, the research and volunteering scheme have already       impacted on institutional penal policy at the local level, with the       potential to become a model for similar projects elsewhere.
Such work is       especially urgent given that large numbers of prisoners (e.g.
80% in       Scotland) are functionally illiterate, which impedes their chances of       securing employment and a life without crime (figures cited on BBC       Scotland http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-scotland-politics-20852685).
