     Policy-makers: This research initiative supports the       socio-cultural and economic development of       (local and national) communities across Scotland.
The research has been       undertaken in       collaboration with NDPBs and with local authorities (LAs), particularly       within pilot areas of       Inverclyde, East Renfrewshire and Renfrewshire, appealing to them as a       focus for social cohesion,       for inclusion of elements of ICH sustainability within the development of       the Curriculum for       Excellence, and for cultural engagement programmes.
`Embracing the       intangible' also contributes       to economic development through cultural tourism in a relatively       cost-effective manner.
This theme       became the subject of the most recent research commission &#8212; currently       in-progress.
The       involvement of NDPBs and LAs, individually and through COSLA, enabled them       to become       stakeholders in the initiative, placing them at the forefront of national       efforts to safeguard ICH in       Scotland.
After cross-party endorsement of the initiative at Holyrood, the       ICH team at ENU also       prepared a customised press statement on ICH for every MSP, so that they       could in turn raise       awareness of the topic within local media.
Partnership with Museums       Galleries Scotland also       ensured the dissemination of research outcomes to all museum staff in       Scotland.
Communities: The ICH team reached out to a wider range of       community-based groups and the       Scottish public.
Promotional packs of leaflets (10,000 copies) and posters       were distributed to all       Scottish public libraries, Community Centres and Learning Resource       Centres.
Six short accounts       of ICH in Scotland and its diversity were uploaded to YouTube.
The team       also sought out links with       communities of practice such as Voluntary Arts Scotland and the       Traditional Music Forum and       gave presentations at their annual conferences.
As stressed in section 2,       the ICH team has worked       to ensure that ICH in Scotland is defined in the most inclusive way       possible so that all forms of ICH       that contribute to national identity are represented.
Black and Ethnic       Minority Infrastructure in       Scotland (BEMIS) and the Council of Ethnic Minority Voluntary Sector       Organisations supported the       ICH team in gaining access to the practitioner groups that they       represented.
The ICH team was       invited to speak at several events including:            The Edinburgh Mela Festival (2010) &#8212; also posted an article by the ICH         team on their         website and promoted its work through press releases to local media,         including STV, BBC         Scotland, Radio Forth, Evening News and Metro;       Meetings (2010) for the Sikh Sanjob and the Saheliya Women and Girls         groups; and       Nari Khallyan Shango (Bengali and Pakistani groups)          This contributed to the involvement of BEM groups and individuals in the       ICH in Scotland initiative       and validated the concept of `one Scotland, many cultures' promoted by the       team.
Education: One of the most effective means of safeguarding ICH,       the team concluded, was its       embedding within the primary and secondary curriculum.
The guidelines of       the Scottish Curriculum         for Excellence (CfE), noted above, demonstrated that there was       considerable scope for the       curriculum as a vehicle for dissemination of ICH-related knowledge and       practice.
Trevor Gray,       Education Officer for Renfrewshire Council, and lead on development and       implementation of the       CfE, carried out a study on behalf of the initiative on ways in which       knowledge, understanding and       participation in ICH could form part of classroom practice for different       age groups.
In turn, this       provided a robust foundation for classroom implementation.
Meetings were       held with GLOW, the       intranet for Scottish schools managed by Learning Teaching Scotland.
All       32 LAs have signed up       to GLOW and, with GLOW mentors for every school in Scotland, GLOW offers       support structures       to host ICH-themed material and facilitate its educational exploitation.
This now forms part of its       agenda.
International: Different international organisations have also       regularly invited the ICH team to       undertake various events, including:            giving public lectures (Vigo) and seminars (Museo do Poblo, Santiago)         in Galicia (2009);       addressing the Dutch government and cultural organisations (Deurne,         2012);       leading symposia at the Smithsonian, Library of Congress and NEA         (Washington DC,         2013); and,       speaking at a symposium to celebrate the UNESCO 2003 Convention's 10th         Anniversary         (Venice, 2013).
International impact was also ensured when UNESCO's Paris ICH division       asked the ICH team in       2009 to lead in creating an ICH training kit in print and on CD.
This kit       was distributed to field       offices and national commissions in sub-Saharan Africa for both local       re-printing and distribution.
The result was a comprehensive and comprehensible information package:       brochures, addressing       different audiences; inventories of intangible heritage and safeguarding       examples; a chronology of       evolution of the ICH programme; and a set of FAQs.
The major beneficiaries       are ICH communities       of practice and policy-makers.
