     The research made clear impacts on the development of the Scottish       publishing and on government policy towards it.
The SAC circulated 1,500       copies of the summary report to policy-makers, other NDPBs, publishers and       throughout the creative community within Scotland as well as being made       available online [A].
The report was publicised by the SAC and received       considerable attention in the Scottish media.
It was the subject of a       Royal Society of Edinburgh international symposium chaired by Prof Gavin       McCrone, drawing on both academics and non-academics, which considered and       debated its conclusions and recommendations.
The impact of those       recommendations resonates through the assessment period.
The Books from Scotland e-commerce portal, created in direct         response to McCleery and Sinclair's research, has developed since 2008         as the key website for information on books published in Scotland [B]       the strategy of Skills Development Scotland (and now Skillset) in the         professionalisation of the industry in Scotland derives from the         research's identification of the need for a clear framework for           skills and training in the sector        increased support up to 2012 for the Gaelic Books Council and in         particular funding for the Itchy Coo Education and Outreach Project         between 2008 and 2012 drew on the research's pinpointing of the lack of         targeted-assistance for minority language publishing [C]        The Scottish Review of Books, currently distributed quarterly         with the Saturday edition of the Herald newspaper, had fulfilled         by 2012 the recommendation from the research for a national and         international, through its distribution by the British Council, forum         for critical discussion of books published in Scotland [D]       The research's identification of gaps in the development of           Educational Publishing fed into Scottish Enterprise's funding         strategy and the creation of new companies such as Bright Red in 2008         and winner of the IPG's Education Publisher of the Year award for 2010         and 2011          The co-author of the report, Marion Sinclair, then left SCOB to become       CEO of Publishing Scotland, in which position she was able to pursue       further the conclusions of the research.
That research, apart from these       immediate and long-lasting impacts, also raised awareness and       understanding of both the economic and the cultural role of publishing       within subsequent inquiries such as that of the Cultural Commission and in       evidence provided to them [E/F].
The support of the sector for this research, and its later iterations,       was made tangible not only in the essential collaboration needed for the       studies in 2006/7 and 2009/10, but also in the letters of support in       successful applications to the AHRC and the Carnegie Trust for FT       postgraduate awards in the extension of this work into the areas of rights       and of cross-country comparison.
The doctoral students who pursued this       work have made not only an academic impact through their publications       [3/4/5 above] but also through participation in industry-facing seminars,       including the Publishing Scotland annual conference.
Ramdarshan Bold, now       a FT lecturer at Loughborough University (a sign of the diffusion of the       `small-nation' research perspective) was also involved in a key public       engagement exercise &#8212; the creation of `The People Behind the Pages'       touring exhibition and booklet in 2009 designed to increase awareness       among the Scottish public of what publishers did and do.
The exhibition       was shown at 12 venues in Scotland, primarily libraries but also secondary       schools [G].
In 2009 McCleery gave the annual plenary COLICO lecture at the meeting of       both the professional library associations of Ireland.
He expanded on the       nature and common challenges of small-nation publishing to an audience       composed of key library managers and local politicians.
Comparative       studies of Scotland, Ireland and Canada received wider circulation through       the availability of the lecture online and as a booklet in 1000 copies       distributed free to the library and publishing communities in Ireland and       Scotland as well as, upon request, to a further international readership       [H].
Such extension, in terms of both the book sector and national       interests, was consolidated through audiences of publishers and writers at       a symposium on International Publishing held in Oslo, funded by the Fritt       Ord Foundation, and a public lecture on `Maintaining the Cultural       Exception' at the Nottebohmzaal in Antwerp &#8212; both in 2010 [I].
In 2011/12 an award from the SFC Interface fund to enhance HEI/SME       collaboration was used to issue a report, `Books in Scotland',       incorporating the results of SCOB's ongoing research as the first of an       annual series.
1,000 copies were distributed in 2012 to all MSPs, MPs,       cultural policy-makers and other stakeholders within the Scottish       creative community.
Downloadable copies were made available through many       independent websites [J].
