     The research led to changes in policy and practice in healthcare and new       community-based employment opportunities in Birmingham which spread to the       development of organisational policy guidance concerning fairness and       quality of life.
Theoretical principles were converted into policy and       practice through organisations developing new, rights-based ideas to       address social inequality.
The interface between research and practice has       been a core characteristic of this case, and the understanding of the       importance of the enduring co-production of knowledge is now embedded in       the policy and practice development methods of these organisations.
NHS Birmingham South Central.
SBPCT used Bradford's research by       introducing equality and diversity into their human resource policies (a)       and service delivery.
They were interested in how best to develop       appropriate measures of effectiveness and outcomes for their commissioning       of community health services for the local population (a).
The PCT used       the Bradford research on cross-sector partnerships to enhance their       partnership working in reforms to their patient and public involvement       work (a).
The capability framework also influenced a new field research       strategy where a Community worker developed a model of provision which       moved away from a health professional driven approach to a       community-based/informed model of health provision where members of the       public (paraprofessionals) were trained to provide support (a,b).
Paraprofessionals worked with community nurses based in 48 GP surgeries,       with the specific remit of working with those least likely to seek       healthcare but also highly likely to need interventions to improve health       and prevent future ill-health.
The chair of the former SBPCT states that       health inequalities did decline and that the capability still influences       contemporary approaches (a).
Gateway Family Services is a social enterprise in Birmingham that       provides health care services to disadvantaged communities, new migrants       and those that are on the margins of society (c,d).
Our research (5,6) was       fundamental to changes made at Gateway.
Gateway adopted the Bradford       capabilities framework, to inform their governance policy and training of       staff, extending the paraprofessionals model of healthcare       provision into the Health Trainers model.
Health Trainers work       within communities to help individuals to evaluate their state of health       (e.g., blood pressure monitoring) and to develop tailored health plans       (e.g.
exercise provided in peer groups) which are revised as an       individual's health improves.
Gateway works in particular with those       beyond the reach of statutory services, who are often unaware of available       healthcare/welfare options.
Cornelius worked with Gateway to train and       develop one of their community workers to include research that built on       the capabilities framework.
Individuals who had previously failed to       access the health service, and were on the margins of society, were helped       to access these vital services, and could also train and gain       qualifications as Health Trainers (c).
Our research led to the inclusion       of the views of the marginalised within the design of Gateway's service       policy and provision.
Gateway now employs 80 people including Health       Trainers and Pregnancy Outreach workers, including staff that had       previously been in severe health and economic difficulties.
The       organisation's diversity is demonstrated in the 18 different languages       spoken.
Gateway used the Bradford framework to develop an approach to       addressing equality, diversity and inclusion that would allow them to       provide services whilst maintaining the "dignity and voice" of       their client group with a focus on well-being, voice, rights and limited       aspirations (adaptive preferences).
Gateway stated: "We used the         research in our redesign of services for local people, in particular our         Health Trainers and Pregnancy Outreach Workers.
Employing local people         to offer community health care makes significant savings and offers         realistic solutions to gaps in health provision...We have         improved lifestyle in hard to reach communities and have demonstrated         reductions in smoking and obesity.
Not only will these changes lead to         lower use of health services in the future, they increase life skills         and economic prospects" (d).
Brap and MacMillan Cancer.
Brap is a national think-tank whose       work focuses on equalities and human rights (e,f,g).
Brap incorporated the         capabilities framework in work conducted for MacMillan Cancer       Support (the Cancer Reform Strategy) to provide on-the-ground approaches       to improving equality practice.
Research published in references 4 and 6       form the basis of the ideas central to these approaches.
The Bradford       framework underpinned the handbook that Brap produced for the Equality and       Human Rights Commission (EHRC) on how to develop human rights based policy       in organisations (e).
The handbook emphases capabilities grounded       corporate social responsibility and how client groups benefit from a       sustainable, empowering approach (6).
This formed the basis for policy and       practice development for the MacMillan project.
The Cancer Reform Strategy and Human Rights Standard for service       provision (the latter coproduced by staff and patients) developed by Brap       (f) was informed by feedback from focus groups and interviews conducted by       the Gateway community worker in conjunction with Cornelius.
"The         Bradford framework underpinned the participation-based, voice-centred         research methods.
Cancer patients, their family and staff worked         together to define issues and develop MacMillan's policy and service         level agreements" (g).
Brap highlighted the importance of the voice       centred approach developed through this research for effective policy and       practice development at MacMillan (g), highlighting the key role of       community research worker in this process.
The community research worker       believed that he had gained a powerful insight into how to develop       equalities based health interventions (b).
The approach developed by MacMillan for service delivery to people with       cancer is based on an established check list of agreements developed using       the capabilities framework, that allow service providers and clients to       judge whether dignity, voice and rights are embedded in the service       transaction.
The process has now been developed as a service level       agreement and rolled out nationally for all of MacMillan Cancer's health       and social care providers including 3,700 nurses, 200 care centres and its       volunteer carer network.
This has "not only improved the quality of         service provision but ensured that the views of cancer patients are core         to the development of policy and practice at MacMillan" (g).
