     The impact agenda has been a part of the ATSR story since the inception       of the programme as its objective was to deliver climate science relevant       to policy.
However a major step occurred in the 1990s when Llewellyn-Jones       was able to use evidence from ATSR-1 to show that the ATSR sea surface       temperature (SST) data were capable of forming a climate SST data set and       hence an important public utility for government.
As a result, the       predecessor departments to the Department of Energy and Climate Change       (DECC) agreed to fund the third AATSR instrument for climate science and       policy support, bringing a series of research instruments together to form       a system for obtaining surface temperature data with climate quality as       advocated by Leicester [a].
DECC is now the lead Department for Government policies on both       international and domestic climate change mitigation, and a strong science       evidence base is crucial for developing these policies.
DECC fully       recognises the importance of sea surface temperature as one of the       essential climate variables (ECVs), and that the most accurate climate       time series for SSTs are those that have been derived from the ATSR       instrument series as described in the Leicester research section.
Results       from Leicester on the quality validation, interpretation and subsequent       application of these high quality ATSR SST records, on their       interpretation and on corroboration of the historical in situ record have       made an important contribution to the scientific evidence that informs the       development of government policy with respect to reductions of greenhouse       gas emissions and the UK's own requirements to reduce greenhouse gas       emissions by 80% by 2050 [a,b].The ATSR data have also contributed       to the UK government's commitment to climate monitoring obligations under       the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change's (UNFCCC)       treaty [c].
Internationally, in terms of climate impact, the datasets and their       comparisons to in situ time series of global mean SST are cited for the       first time in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 5th       Assessment Report [a,d].
Hence the ATSR observations of temperature       change are part of the evidence chain open to international government       scrutiny and important at a time of apparent hiatus in surface temperature       warming.
The AATSR has also had an increasing and unexpected impact on operational       oceanography both during its lifetime [e] and on successor sensors       [f] respectively, due particularly to the work carried out by       Corlett in assessing the accuracy of ATSR data and implementing       operational functionalities for data quality.
Reference [e]       describes how the Group for High Resolution SST (GHRSST), by providing       access to AATSR data, has enabled operational services using AATSR data.
These successes have been used to define the requirements for operational       ocean services as part of the European Commission GMES/Copernicus service       (the Earth Observation equivalent of Galileo for navigation) resulting in       an EC-funded Sea and Land Surface Temperature instrument (SLSTR or ATSR-4)       on the Sentinel-3 satellite.
This instrument is deliberately ATSR-like in       technique, accuracy and precision [f].
Llewellyn-Jones and Remedios       have vigorously used Leicester results, and those of the international        ATSR community, to support the views of operational users as to the       importance and utility of ATSR-type data for the future.
The impact on operational oceanography was so strong that an unexpected       benefit of AATSR has been its use within a sea surface temperature       analysis system which is used to drive the forecast models for weather       forecasting at the Met Office and the European Centre for Medium Range       Weather Forecasting [g].
This is because of the AATSR data's great       utility for correcting the biases of other sea surface temperature       observations which feed into the analysis and then the weather forecasts [h],       as demonstrated by Corlett's work at Leicester     Finally, Leicester ATSR science has specifically contributed to public       information on climate science.
Llewellyn-Jones at Leicester worked very       closely with exhibition staff, on behalf of DECC, to arrange the AATSR       engineering model as one of the centrepieces of the "Atmosphere &#8212; exploring climate science" gallery in the Science Museum in South       Kensington, opened in December 2010 by HRH The Prince of Wales.
The model       hangs from the roof of this special exhibit and is thus visible to the       huge numbers of visitors per year (&gt;1.5 million; 737,000 in the first       year compared to 400,000 target).
Accompanying interactive display       material is based on interviews with Llewellyn-Jones, because of his PI       role, and includes a video presentation by Llewellyn-Jones explaining the       science and the provision of credible observational evidence on surface       temperature change.
[i]
