     The main impact of the group's work has been to change the paradigm of       asthma from a hierarchical model in which Th2 mediated eosinophilic       inflammation causes all aspects of the disease, to a more complex model in       which inflammation and lung function abnormalities are relatively       independent of each other.
In this model the heterogeneity of asthma,       including different responses to treatment, is explained by the varying       extent to which abnormalities such as lung function, lung damage and       inflammation are expressed in any one individual.
This conceptual       framework is in harmony with the increasing emphasis on stratified       medicine in which treatments are targeted at specific disease processes       within a condition rather than necessarily all aspects of the disease.
The       group's work therefore has had important consequences for understanding       disease pathogenesis, drug development and patient management.
Pathogenesis     By showing that the lung function abnormalities, inflammatory processes       and lung damage which characterise asthma and COPD can occur       independently, the Leicester team's model emphasises the need to carefully       phenotype patients according to those disease processes if sense is to be       made of genetic data and analysis of diseased tissue.
Drug development     Drug development depends first and foremost on identifying a biological       target which, when blocked by a drug, will ameliorate a disease process.
It is fundamentally important that the target is closely linked to a       specific outcome which is relevant to disease control and can be measured       when evaluating the drug.
Drug development in asthma, particularly       involving inhibitors of the Th2 pathway which has been the main focus of       the pharmaceutical industry in recent decades, has been hampered by a       failure to select patients with eosinophilic disease for clinical trials       and the choice of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1,)       which is not necessarily affected by inflammation, as the main outcome       measure.
Based on its observations the group hypothesised that blocking       the Th2 pathway would have a relatively narrow effect, preventing severe       exacerbations in patients with active Th2 (eosinophilic) inflammation, but       would not have any effect on other aspects of asthma such as variable       airflow obstruction or non-eosinophilic disease.
To support this hypothesis the group undertook a single-centre,       investigator-led study of a biological therapy developed by       GlaxoSmithKline called mepolizumab which neutralises the specific       eosinophil growth factor IL-5 and ameliorates eosinophilic inflammation.
This drug had been studied in unselected asthma patients using lung       function as a primary outcome and had been regarded as ineffective, almost       causing it to be dropped by the company.
The Leicester researchers       demonstrated that it was effective at preventing exacerbations in patients       with active eosinophilic inflammation, findings which have been replicated       in a large multi-centre trial (5.4).
A phase 3 trial will report in       2014 and the group is confident it will be licensed and will be a       life-changing treatment for tens of thousands of people at risk of dying       from asthma or whose lives are blighted by the side effects of       corticosteroids (5.5, 5.6).
The group's work has also       blazed a trail for two more anti-eosinophil therapies which are in late       stages of development and has explained the findings with other anti-Th2       therapies which have also been shown to prevent exacerbations in       eosinophilic patients with relatively little effect on non-eosinophilic       patients or lung function.
While the life-changing impacts on patient care       through new drugs are still potential, the research has already had a       significant impact on the business decisions and strategic direction of       drug development companies.
It has also already had an impact on patient       care through a change in the way asthma patients are managed: -     Patient management.
Perhaps the most important impact of our observations has been on patient       management.
Asthma comprises in large part two components: inflammation       and disordered lung function.
Traditionally asthma management has been       based on measuring lung function but not inflammation.
In the sub-set of       patients in which lung function and inflammation are most clearly       dissociated (i.e.
adult onset, eosinophilic inflammation predominant       asthma and non-eosinophilic asthma), the group has shown that measurement       of inflammation (by analysing sputum), allows targeted use of       corticosteroids leading to both reduced side effects and a lower risk of       exacerbations.
In 2003 the group established a difficult asthma clinic, which more than       1,000 patients have since attended, based on the idea of routinely       measuring airway inflammation.
An internal audit showed a 50% reduction in       severe exacerbations; in addition, the group is expecting the Royal       College of Physicians' national audit of asthma deaths, which will report       in 2014, to show that Leicestershire has a very low rate of asthma deaths       in adults &#8212; the group is aware of only two over the last decade, neither       of which could easily have been prevented.
The importance of measuring       inflammation, particularly in more severe disease, has now been widely       incorporated into asthma guidelines in the UK and internationally (5.1,       5.2, 5.3) and is embedded in the practice of the members of       the British Thoracic Society (BTS) severe asthma network.
