     Over a twenty-year period the Essex High Performance Networks (HPN) group       has developed       concepts and implementations across a broad range of optical switching       regimes.
Principles of       optical packet, optical circuit and optical burst switching exhibit broad       applicability to a wide range       of real-world challenges.
This offers benefit to network providers,       operators and users seeking to       exploit the opportunities associated with increased integration of optical       elements in networks.
The HPN group recognised that involving users in projects would offer an       excellent means by       which research could be targeted towards major industry challenges, and       insight could be       efficiently channelled into practical application.
A notable example is       the EU-funded MAINS project,       which sought direct technical and practical impact upon mainstream network       services amongst its       primary outcomes.
During the project Essex partnered with a number of       collaborators including       Dublin-based network equipment manufacturer Intune Networks Ltd.
This       interaction proved to be       highly productive, and provided an ideal way for the know-how and research       insight of the Essex       group to be applied in a commercial context.
In particular, Essex research       was used to inform       development and validation of the iVX8000 system, Intune's first       commercial product.
In a letter of       support [see corroborating source 1], Intune's Director of Research notes:     "Through product development and validation, Intune benefitted from the       opportunity to draw       upon the know-how and research insight of the HPN group.
Principles and       concepts of optical       packet switching, pioneered at the University of Essex and developed       through our discussions       and collaborative work, were particularly useful in engineering the       iVX8000 product."
Director of Research, Intune Networks     The iVX8000 system was launched in May 2011, to lead the Verisma       product family.
It represented       the world's first carrier-class converged switch and transport solution,       capable of routing optical       data traffic in an efficient way and at far greater speeds than existing       broadband.
The platform was designed to address the global challenge presented by       massive increases in on-demand       data traffic and offers enhanced network efficiency, operational       simplicity and service       delivery agility.
It relies upon optical burst technology and features a       highly distributed optical       packet switching fabric, enabling the performance of both switching and       transport functions       simultaneously, where fast tuneable lasers are used to transmit packets.
The iVX8000 allows users       to overcome a number of key technical challenges, and features a range of       particularly important       characteristics, as detailed in Intune's May 2011 press release to       accompany the product's       commercial launch [2].
Prominent amongst these characteristics is the       capability to provide `liquid       bandwidth', which permits operators to deliver packets of high bandwidth       on demand, allowing the       full potential of network assets to be realised.
This versatility has       particular significance for       operators supporting cloud services and also for other high-bandwidth       users.
Critically the platform       also enables networks to be easily scaled &#8212; a significant issue faced by       network providers and       operators.
Following a period of on-going development, in January 2013       Intune announced that a       new optical switching architecture had been developed to allow       interconnection of multiple data       centres, enabling the iVX8000 to virtualise functions across       several locations that can span       hundreds of kilometres [3].
Both before and after the commercial launch of the iVX8000       system, Intune's implementations       underwent significant technical validation.
Notably, in 2010, the       technology behind the Verisma       platform was selected to form the foundation of the Irish `Exemplar'       network test-bed.
An example       of an Irish `Future Internet' project, Exemplar was designed to provide a       high-speed       communications network, initially based in Dublin, but later to expand to       become a nationwide       infrastructure.
The network initiative makes use of Intune's platform to       provide the flexible network       architecture and simplified software operations and control interfaces       which will be required by the       next generation of carrier services [2].
Exemplar has attracted       significant commercial interest from       companies keen to make use of the network for technical product       development [4] [5] and was, in       2012, recognised by Ireland's Taoiseach (Head of Government) Enda Kenny       TD, as a "key       component" of the aim to position Ireland as a knowledge economy [6].
Following commercial       launch of the technology in the form of the iVX8000 system,       validation also included a       comprehensive suite of tests undertaken by Spanish broadband and       telecommunications provider       Telef&#243;nica.
In September 2012, the Head of Core Network Evolution at       Telef&#243;nica I+D       (Telef&#243;nica's wholly-owned innovation company) reported that under       operational conditions in field       trials, "the system behaved exactly as predicted" [7].
Throughout its development, launch and field implementation, the iVX8000       system has       underpinned a period of sustained growth and success for Intune.
The       company's work to       commercialise optical packet switch and transport technology led to the       award of The Irish Times       `Innovation of the Year' in 2011 [8] [9] and the iVX8000 later       became the first distributed switch to       be NEBS certified, enabling the potential for use in US carrier networks       [10].
The company has       enhanced its position within the photonics transmission sector and has       attracted a further &#8364;15M of       venture capital and collaborative research funding since 2011; Essex's       contribution towards these       successes is acknowledged in the Intune letter of support [1].
With an       unprecedented and ever-growing       global demand for high-speed broadband access, for applications such as       video       streaming, data sharing and social networking, the market for Intune's       novel implementation is also       set to increase, thereby extending further the impact of this research.
