     As summarised in section 1, this research has had impacts in four areas:     1.
[text removed for publication]     2.
Enhanced public and policy understanding and debate:     Selby's published analysis of the JWC negotiation archives [R4] has       generated extensive debate, and some policy change.
This research was       intentionally published in an open access journal to maximise non-academic       readership.
It was also presented to a range of policymaking audiences       (including in the West Bank, and at the European Commission); and was       summarised in a widely disseminated policy briefing [C5].
The findings of this research were extensively covered within the       Israeli, Palestinian and international media, including in The         Guardian, the leading liberal Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz,       and the Palestinian newspaper Al-Quds [C6].
They were disseminated       by Palestinian civil society organisations, international Palestinian       solidarity groups, and international donor organisations supporting the       Palestinian water sector [C7].
They were also widely read and circulated       by local and international policymakers.
For example, the research was       read and commented upon within the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and       distributed to the UK Consulate in Jerusalem and the UK Embassies in Tel       Aviv and Amman, as it provided information on the subject which was       previously not known to British officials [C8].
The research has already       been extensively cited, for example by the leading Palestinian human       rights NGO Al-Haq [C9].
Indicative of the impact of this research, Selby       has been invited to present it before the Arab League [C10].
In turn, the research has generated public discussion on the JWC and       appropriate political responses to it.
Within the Palestinian water       community, the revelation of the extent of PWA approval of settlement       infrastructure provoked extensive and heated debate, culminating in a       former head of the PWA &#8212; the Palestinian official who had been most       centrally involved in approving settlement water facilities &#8212; writing a       7,000 word response [C11].
Disappointingly (though unsurprisingly, given       the weakness of the anti-occupation movement within Israeli society),       there has been no equivalent debate within Israel.
The research has also enhanced understanding and contributed to policy       change amongst international donors.
Selby's research showed that       donor-funded water projects in the West Bank have often been approved       because the PWA was simultaneously approving settlement facilities, and       thus that donors have, whether wittingly or unwittingly, been complicit in       activity which they themselves view as illegal and a major obstacle to       peace.
While a few donors had previously known about this, most donors did       not: for example, according to the ICRC, it was not aware that approval of       one of its water projects had been negotiated as part of a quid pro quo       linked to PWA approval of a settlement facility [C12].
The extent to which       this research has also led to changes in donor policies is more difficult       to say.
[text removed for publication] Equally, in recent interviews,       donors have been uniformly unwilling to go on record expressing negative       views of the JWC [C12].
[text removed for publication]     3.
[text removed for publication]     4.
Challenges to international policy on water `cooperation':     International policy on trans-boundary water issues favours `cooperation       of any sort, no matter how slight', on the grounds that `cooperation' is       preferable to `conflict'.
This orthodoxy has recently been subject to       extensive critique from `hydro-hegemony' researchers, who have sought to       show how water `cooperation' can function as an instrument of hegemony and       injustice.
Selby's critique of `cooperation' in Israeli-Palestinian water       relations has provided the formative empirical evidence for this research       programme [C14].
In turn, hydro-hegemony research has been widely read,       and lessons from it learned, within the international water policy       community.
For example, hydro-hegemony research, and Selby's work, have       influenced the thinking of the Stockholm International Water Institute       (one of the leading water policy institutes worldwide) and made it better       understand that cooperation is not a panacea or something that should be       promoted at any cost [C15].
