     (i) Hay steamers HG 1000, HG 600 and HG-GO       impact       The research provided essential evidence on the efficacy of the products.
It has allowed Propress Equine Ltd to produce marketing literature citing       the proven effects of the products to the consumer.
Propress Equine Ltd       use the research in statements on their web page &#8212; `Only Haygain has       published scientific research to support these gains' / supported by       science, used by professionals' and PDFs of both the research archive and       a brief summary of the findings in the annual review of the RAU can be       downloaded from this webpage       (http://www.haygain.co.uk/haygain-hg-1000.php       accessed 5/11/2013) .Thus the work cited here underpins their marketing       and advertising.
The research has been disseminated in academic journals, popular       articles, through web sites, leaflets and at shows via trade stands.
The       work has also been delivered via technical talks at veterinary CPD days in       Edinburgh and Nottingham Veterinary Schools and the Royal Veterinary       College.
This has meant that the steamers are now recommended by many vets       when advising their clients on strategies to reduce respiratory disorders       in stabled horses.
The company has benefitted from the research in that it can support its       marketing statements with proven findings.
Horse owners have benefitted by       being able to reduce the negative effects of dust in the stable and so       improve horse performance.
Both are evidenced by testimonial statements on       the Haygain web site www.haygain.co.uk.
(accessed 5/11/13)     timeline and delivery specifics       2011 Haygain fund research on respirable particle and microbial content of       dry, steamed and soaked hay lead by Dr Moore-Colyer (Moore-Colyer       and Fillery, 2012)     2012 Based on the results of the 2011 work Moore-Colyer in       collaboration with Haygain do further studies on the effect of different       wetting treatments on the microbial content of hay (award winning       presentation: , European Equine Health and Nutrition Congress, 2013); and       the effect of steaming on bacteria, yeast and mould concentrations in       haylage for horses (Leggatt and Moore-Colyer, Proceedings of         the British Society of Animal Science.
Nottingham UK, April 2013).
Results of both studies used in marketing literature and as the basis for       further work.
(ii) Aquacid foregut buffering supplement (Marigot Ltd)         impact       The positive buffering effect reported in the Moore-Colyer et al.
(2013) paper has been the major supporting evidence for the recent       re-launch in 2013 of this product internationally under the name       EquMinPlus.
The incidence of gastric ulceration syndrome in performance       horses is &gt; 80% and most professional riders use ant-acid supplements       to counteract the negative effect that ulcers can have on performance.
The       extended period of buffering achieved by this product will make it an       extremely useful addition to any performance horse diet.
timeline and delivery specifics       2009 In vitro study Funded by Marigot Ltd       2010 Paper delivered at European Workshop on Equine Nutrition       2013 Re-launch of product based on research published (Moore-Colyer,       O'Gorman and Wakefield, 2013)     (iii) Actisaf&#8482; live yeast supplement (Lesaffre Feed Additives)       impact       Hale et al.
(2012) reported a lower microbial fibre digestion       capacity in the laminitis prone phenotype and linked this deficit to       disease pathogenesis.
Other groups have discovered that live yeast fed to       ruminants increases fibre digestibility via proliferation of fibre       digesting bacteria.
Therefore Lesaffre Feed Additives (world's largest       manufacturer of live yeast) used the Hale et al.
(2012) finding as       a primary justification for feeding a live yeast product (Actisaf) to       laminitic horses, in order to increase fibre digestion capacity in these       animals.
Indeed, the seminal work evidenced herein has given rise to       additional in-vitro and in-vivo efficacy trials which       extend the Hale et al.
(2012) work, now featuring live yeast       treatments fed to laminitic prone equids.
timeline and delivery         specifics       2011 - Lesaffre fund research an in vitro fermentation kinetics       study, led by Catherine Hale (Lesaffre) and Dr Andrew Hemmings (RAU)       2012 &#8212; On the strength of the significant differences uncovered,       Lesaffre begin additional investigation involving live yeast supplements       (Actisaf&#8482;)       2013 &#8212; Lesaffre (a company new to the equine feeds market) use data       as part justification for more general expansion into the equine feed       supplementation sector     (iv) horseRATION iPhone application       Impact       Data from Hale et al., (2011) was used to inform development of       the iPhone application horseRATION.
(available from the App Store; 2232       downloads by Nov 2013; 187 purchases of the full product) Based on the       owners assessment of a particular horses behavioural profile (see figure       1), a suitable balance of fibre versus starch is recommended, according to       the animals foreseen workload.
Currently on licence to Arkuris Ltd, the       app was developed at Aberystwyth University with support from Centre of       Excellence in Mobile Applications and Services (CEMAS) &#8212; an initiative of       the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)     Figure 1. horseRATION behavioural profiling screen a) input unit b) owner feedback example      Aside from iPhone application development, research into the linkage       between feeding and behaviour has been widely disseminated to the end user       via publication in veterinary journals (e.g.
McBride and Hemmings 2009)       and two articles (20.08.09 and 16.06.11) commissioned for the leading UK       equestrian lay publication `'Horse and Hound'' (circulation~50,000       weekly), thereby ensuring well targeted impact.
timeline and delivery specifics       2011- Feeding trials into high and low starch diets conducted, led       by Dr Andrew Hemmings (RAU) and Catherine Hale (Lesaffre)       2012- horseRATION iPhone application development begins, with       Catherine Hale leading the nutritional aspects of the project, and Arkuris       managing programming and marketing strategy       2012- horseRATION iPhone application launched at the Royal Welsh       Show       2013- horseRATION wins British Equine Trade Association Award         for Innovation award.
