     Many `real world' processes, both industrial and domestic, are affected       by high levels of uncertainty and imprecision.
Fuzzy logic systems (FLSs)       laid the basis for a successful method to model vagueness, uncertainty and       imprecision.
Type-2 FLCs, capable of real-time operation and which can       overcome the drawbacks of type-1 FLCs, developed and presented by Hagras       and his students, have enabled applications that were not previously       possible.
The underpinning research sparked a strong interest from       industry where there is a need to develop intelligent systems which can       handle high uncertainty levels and deliver responses which avoid the       drawbacks of existing systems.
As a result of the work of Hagras and his       students, type-2 FLCs have directly underpinned the realisation of impact       in a number of real world contexts.
Telecommunications:     British Telecom (BT): BT employs a large mobile workforce, in       which engineers cover particular geographic areas and are assigned jobs in       response to customer needs.
Given the size of this workforce and the       complexities of its deployment, ensuring the most efficient use of skills       and resources is extremely important.
It was recognised that systems       developed at Essex would be ideally suited for handling the level of       uncertainty associated with this task and thus, under a research contract       beginning in 2010, the project `Distributed and Fuzzy Resource         Planning' was established [see corroborating source 1].
The project used type-2 FLCs, developed at Essex, to accommodate the       inherent uncertainties and imprecision associated with workforce capacity       planning; for example, in intelligently deploying engineers to cover       overlaps in coverage encountered at multiple adjoining geographic areas.
Fuzzy boundaries and shifts were created, and engineers were matched to       multiple areas, to enable optimum and dynamic allocation of skills and       resources.
In 2011, a newly developed system, based on the insight of this       research, demonstrated a considerable saving of engineers' time.
This       improved efficiency has resulted in a greater throughput of job completion       for customers.
In a letter of support, the Head of Resource Management       Technologies Research at BT acknowledges the importance and usefulness of       this research.
In recognition of its efficacy, BT intends to apply the       system for managing its workforce deployment throughout the UK [2].
Financial applications:     LogicalGlue Ltd: In 2006, a Knowledge Transfer Partnership was       undertaken between the University of Essex and Sanctuary Personnel Ltd,       which resulted in the formation of LogicalGlue Ltd in 2009.
A type-2 FLC       was deployed by LogicalGlue to develop a group decision-making system for       various domains.
Within the financial domain, the fuzzy system has been       used for credit scoring and has consistently outperformed existing       commercial counterparts.
During independent technical trials with a       leading credit rating agency, LogicalGlue's website reports how the       company's system demonstrated an 11% uplift in spotting defaults in credit       card data when compared to leading statistical regression systems [3].
In       a letter of support, LogicalGlue's CEO goes on to explain: "As well as the       capability of these implementations to handle uncertainty, their       `white-box' transparency also meant that the reasoning behind given       decisions could be understood; it enabled the system to provide an       explanation of its operation, in a user-friendly, easy to interpret and       language-based system" [4].
This work was awarded the 2009 Lord Stafford Award for Achievement in       Innovation for East of England.
The award citation stated: "...the result       is a product that is not only benefiting IPFour [the parent company of       Sanctuary Personnel Ltd] but could also have a much further reach" [5].
In       2011 the project was also named the best KTP in London and the East region       [6] and listed as a finalist in the TSB's `Best of the Best' awards [7,       see page 6], at a time when approximately 1000 other projects were in       progress.
Two further KTPs (entitled `Developing Intelligent Data         Integration and Visualisation Tools' (January 2010 - December 2013,       &#163;211,266) and `Developing Intelligent Adaptive Systems for Process         Control and Production Optimisation in the Oil Refining Industries'       (August 2010 - August 2013, &#163;197,266)) have been awarded to the company       and the University, to continue knowledge transfer projects.
Discovery Investing Scoreboard Inc.: Since 2010, USA-based       Discovery Investing Scoreboard Inc. has used Hagras' research to develop a       free online service for evaluating the investment potential of companies.
It was recognised, in particular, that micro- or small-capitalisation       companies are often not established enough to be able to demonstrate the       necessary data, references or proven assets that might be required to       measure suitability for investment via traditional methods of investment       analysis.
However, in many cases, it is these small or early stage       companies in which many of the most prudent investments can be made,       before they have the opportunity to fully exploit their potential for       growth.
The type-2 FLSs employed by Discovery Investing enable handling of       encountered linguistic uncertainties and can be used to produce a score of       a company's `discovery potential', associated with a given level of       imprecision.
The company's CEO believes that the system is the first       commercial product to use interval type-2 fuzzy logic in a language-based       computing implementation for application to the digital economy.
In a       letter of support he explains how "The system has been in use for one and       one-half years and is having a deep impact for evaluating businesses in       the USA and in other emerging and existing companies all over the world.
I       am delighted to acknowledge the value of the insight which Professor       Hagras' research provided in this instance" [8].
