     The research demonstrated how the creation of supportive services and a       helpful policy context       might allow people with IDD to lead more included lives within the       community.
These insights have       been embedded in practice through close working with national charities       (e.g.
United Response,       Mencap).
Impact has extended beyond the UK, to other parts of Europe and       to Australia.
The key       impacts can be summarised as follows:     Influencing and informing policy and public debate:     The research fundamentally challenged the assumptions about the needs of       those with IDD held       by policy-makers and professionals.
Most significantly, research on       deinstitutionalisation has       provided evidence supporting the argument that all people with       disabilities have the same human       rights as everyone else, including the right to a life in the community,       free from segregation and       discrimination.
This helped shift the policy discourse in the UK.
Notably,       Mansell (CBE for services       to IDD, January 2012) wrote the Department of Health's 2007 policy       guidance on services for       people with IDD which was acclaimed by the Parliamentary Under Secretary       of State for Care       Services as `invaluable' in ensuring `that people with additional and       complex needs are       appropriately cared for so that their needs are well managed and they lead       fulfilling lives' [see         corroboration 5.1].
The Mansell Report's recommendations were       reiterated in the Government's       policy document Valuing People Now [corrob 5.2] and, in the       wake of the Winterbourne View       scandal, in the Department of Health's `Transforming Care: a National         Response to Winterbourne         View Hospital [corrob 5.3].
The last long-stay NHS hospital       for those with IDD subsequently closed       in 2009.
Such policy influence has been evident elsewhere.
For example,       the research features       strongly in recent Irish reports on the use of congregate settings,       leading to a new system of       service provision and individualised support in Ireland [see corrob         5.4].
Those involved in the       Health Services Executive (HSE) Congregated Settings Report in Ireland       attest that the research       `has been central to the national discourse on optimal supports for       people with disabilities' [corrob.
5.5].
This research has also had significant impact on the work of       campaign groups fighting for the       rights of those with IDD.
The Policy Officer of the European Network on       Independent Living argues       the DECLOC study `has provided crucial evidence-based policy advice which       has helped make the       case for transition from institutional care to community-based       alternatives' [corrob.
5.6; 5.7].
Impact on the management and quality of services     The research also impacts on the quality of service provision through its       promotion of supportive       and skilled service provision.
The research suggested exemplary service       systems need staff with       specific skills who can enable people to access the opportunities       available to them.
Person-centred       Active Support training materials based on these recommendations have sold       more than 430       copies worldwide.
Almost 100 people have been trained as trainers in       Active Support in the UK       and Australia, and these trainers have gone on to train staff in many       other services.
In addition,       more than 500 front-line staff in over 25 organisations in the UK (e.g.
The Avenues Group, HFT       and Dimensions), Australia (e.g.
Greystanes in NSW; Endeavor in       Queensland; Golden City       Support Services, Annecto, Jewish Care and Yooralla in Victoria), Croatia       (Association for       Promoting Inclusions), and Ireland (Health Service Executive and Rehab       Care) have been trained       in the methods recommended by this research.
These organisations support       thousands of people       with IDD.
Recent requests for training have also come from Norway and Hong       Kong.
Evidence of       the impact of Active Support hence comes from across the world [corrob         5.8; 5.9; 5.10; 5.11].
Ongoing studies and feedback from organisations suggest that Active       Support results in improved       cost-effectiveness and value for money.
Staff also report higher levels of       job satisfaction.
The       President of the Association for Promoting Inclusion, Croatia, states       `Active Support helps our staff       understand how they can be person-centered not just conceptually but also       practically in the way       they provide direct support' [corrob 5.8].
This has resulted in the       adoption of a new model for care       services for those with IDD, with `the transformation methodology, staff       training and resident       preparation ...used as models by the Croatian government to transform       remaining residential       institutions for people with intellectual disabilities' [corrob 5.8].
Impact on the quality of life of people with disabilities     Through changing policy, attitudes and staff practices, the research has       contributed to a clearly-       documented improvement in quality of life for people with disabilities       [e.g.
corrob 5.12].
The       particular impact of Active Support on quality of life is also well       documented in the research       literature.
However, the strongest evidence of the impact of Active       Support comes from       organisations and individuals who have taken it up [corrob 5.8, 5.9,         5.10, 5.11, 5.13].
The       Managing Director of United Response reports it has allowed those with IDD       `to develop a range of       relationships with other people, leading to increased wellbeing...their       physical health...and       emotional wellbeing has improved' [corrob 5.9].
In Australia, the       CEO of Greystanes, who support       those with the most profound disabilities, similarly confirms that `we       have seen, in the short time       that we have initiated person-centred active support...enormous impact on       the lives of people with       disability...[it] enables participation, choice and inclusion' [corrob         5.11].
