     Bradford's work on biosecurity issues has influenced state policy on       biological weapons and has become internationally known and highly       regarded by governments (a) (such as The Netherlands) and civil society       groups (b) (such as Lord Rees, Royal Society) concerned with the       maintenance and strengthening of the Biological and Toxin Weapons       Convention (BTWC).
BDRC works in a critical but constructive partnership       with States Parties on strengthening the BTWC and its staff has been       invited to participate in and give presentations at workshops, briefings       and expert working groups at virtually every BTWC-associated international       meeting of States Parties from 1996 to the present (2 per year in REF       period).
The impact of this engagement and the broader work of BDRC in       influencing State policies on the BTWC is evidenced by the fact that its       work is regularly cited by States parties in their own proposals and       discussions on the BTWC.
For example, just one Official Paper submitted in       April 2011 by the governments of Australia, Japan and Switzerland to the       Preparatory Conference of the States Parties to the Biological Weapons       Convention, held at the UN in Geneva April 2011, includes more than 20       references to the work of BDRC (c).
One outcome of the Seventh Review Conference of the BTWC has been the       addition of a standing agenda item that focuses on educating life       scientists in the ethical aspects of their work and will be monitored by       the future BTWC conferences.
This was a key recommendation of the Bradford       research and featured in the reports (a) presented (d) at BTWC (December       2011).
Additionally, BDRC's Key Points paper published in 2012 included a       foreword from the Head of the Review Conference involving 163 states who       stated it would `inform the States' Parties preparations for the Seventh       Review Conference (a).
BDRC has brought together the knowledge generated by its research       activity and its ongoing work with BTWC to create a series of innovative       training resources for life scientists around the world.
In 2009 as a       result of research with the National Defence Medical College of Japan and       the Landau Network Centro Volta of Italy, BDRC created an       easily-accessible online Education Module Resource (EMR), intended to plug       the gap in the ethical and social training provided to life scientists and       others involved in bio-technologies (e,f).
There are 20 lectures that       explore the threat posed by dual-use technology in the life sciences and       present best practice for the responsible conduct of scientific research.
Each lecture with accompanying slides is available open source, free of       charge to anyone that wants to use them.
Initially produced in English and       Japanese, they are now available in, Russian, French and       Romanian/Moldovan, Spanish, Urdu, and Polish.
One author (g) has produced       a book chapter devoted entirely to the value of the EMR.
In 2010, building on the initial open source resource, BDRC and its       partners launched a 12 week online Train-the-Trainer (TTP) programme to       support educators in the provision of dual-use training for their own       students and other practising scientists.
This is the only University       accredited module on bioethics and biosecurity in the world.
The       importance of this programme for preventing the misuse of life science       research is evidenced by the fact that, following representations from       BDRC, the Biosecurity Engagement Program (BEP) of the Office of       Cooperative Threat Reduction in the US Department of State made a policy       decision to provide a series of three grants amounting to &#163;70,000 to fund       75 bursaries for practicing life scientists to participate in the TTP.
To       date, 75 life scientists from 14 different countries (e.g.
Iraq,       Afghanistan, Pakistan, Indonesia, Philippines, Kenya and Nigeria) have       been trained.
A unique capacity-building feature of BDRC's online       train-the-trainer module is that it is a requirement that participants       utilise the EMR to demonstrate how they will assimilate dual-use       biosecurity considerations into the training of others.
In accordance with       the Testimonials (g) collected by BDRC, participants that have       successfully completed the train-the-trainer course have thus incorporated       dual-use biosecurity into teaching and practice.
According to one Graduate       (h): "...I teach a course on Dual Use Education at Graduate level at         Pakistan and this material has helped a lot" (Shinwari.Z).
Another       student commented, "I did speak to the Lagos State Chapter of the         Association of Public Health Physicians of Nigeria (APHPN) on dual use         issues.
This was at a continuing professional development session held         at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (Department of Community         Health).... in Lagos.
There I used my group assignment on the Thomas         Butler case to introduce them to applied ethics, dual use and other         biosecurity issues" (Odubanjo.D) (h).
In 2011, the BRDC was funded by the UK MOD to develop another training       programme, called the National Series, which tailors the existing EMR so       that it reflects the particular issues relevant to scientists in 5       different countries (Pakistan and four Central European States).
This       eliminates the need for countries to produce their own materials and to       find expert deliverers, thus increasing the opportunities for scientists       in parts of the world where bio-security is particularly pertinent, to       receive this vital training.
Following a successful trial in Iraq (with 30       participants) in 2012, BEP (US Department of State) are now commissioning       BDRC staff to deliver further training in Iraq.
Going forward, further       BDRC capacity-building initiatives to change the practice of life and       associated sciences through the creation of regional training hubs are       being developed with the G8 Global Partnership (i) and under United       Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI)       Project 3 and Project 18 (i) both with the potential to build capacity in       training for hundreds of scientists in different parts of the world.
