     All the work by Professor Harris was supported by Natural Alternatives       International (NAI) Inc, an American based company and leading formulator,       manufacturer and marketer of customized nutritional supplements whose       published strategy is to "commercialize our beta-alanine patent estate         through contract manufacturing, royalty and license agreements and         protect our proprietary rights".
NAI have filed and been granted       filed patents worldwide (US, EU, China, Canada, Japan) based on Harris'       beta-alanine work to create the `beta-alanine patent estate' (see http://www.carnosyn.com/about).
In particular, Harris' discovery that the presence of paraesthesia       (tingling sensation in the skin) occurred with beta-alanine supplemented       in bolus form, led to the development and manufacture of slow-release       beta-alanine capsules by NAI, these capsules minimizing or preventing       paraesthesia effects.
Thus in 2012, the slow-release beta-alanine capsules       were patented by NAI under the CarnoSyn&#174; registered trademark (U.S. Patent       No.
8,129,422 entitled "Methods and compositions for increasing the       anaerobic working capacity in tissues.").
Harris is named as one of the       two inventors on this patent (other NAI patents also name Harris as sole       or joint inventor) which cites more than 30 of Harris' publications within       the period he was employed at Chichester (including all of those listed       under section 3).
Furthermore, during fiscal year 2011, NAI expanded the       beta-alanine licensing programs through the execution of a supply       agreement with Nestle Nutrition (Nestle) and a license and supply       agreement with Abbott Laboratories (Abbott).
From the start of fiscal year       2009, NAI revenues with the sale and licences of beta-alanine has grown       from $515.000 to $4.8 million in the fiscal year 2013.
During fiscal year       2013, NAI issued seven new beta-alanine patents also based on Harris' work       whilst at Chichester bringing the number of NAI patents possessed by June       2013 to twenty-five for beta-alanine and five for sustained released       beta-alanine.
Multiple WO, US, CN and one KR filed patents returned from       the WIPO Patentscope database that are beta-alanine related and cite       Harris as the inventor; these patents also establish the deep connection       between Roger Harris and NAI Inc.
Many sports nutrition companies (e.g.
UK-based Maximuscle, the leading       European Sports Nutrition company, bought by GlaxoSmithKline for &#163;162       million), now provide beta-alanine as a single ingredient or incorporated       in a multi-ingredient product.
Elite athletes use Maximuscle beta- alanine       (e.g.
Welsh National Rugby Union ("beta-alanine is used 4 weeks prior to       and for duration of campaigns") and British Weight Lifting).
It is quite       rare for elite athletes to share `secrets' during interview about their       nutritional intake, however, Dai Green, a 400 m hurdles World Champion       acknowledged taking beta-alanine.
One can only speculate about the impact       of such revelation by a World Champion.
Confirmation of the reach and       significance of Harris' work comes through the Australian Institute of       Sport (AIS) Sports Supplement Program in its 2012 factsheet on       beta-alanine supplementation.
This factsheet targets to inform elite and       amateur athletes, their coaches and support organisations and arises from       "a cutting-edge program initiated in 2000 following a major review of         supplement practices by AIS athletes and their related issues [it] is         designed to provide world's best practice in the research, education and         provision of sports foods and supplements for AIS athletes and coaches".
Professor Harris has been an advocate for evidence based sports nutrition       for many years.
Harris and co-workers were invited to contribute to the       BBC TV series called "The Truth about Food" and was screened on BBC2 in       February 2007.
He received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the       International Society of Sports Nutrition in 2011 for outstanding       contributions to the sciences of sports nutrition.
He routinely       contributes to public and scientific debate, for example, evidence on       beta-alanine supplementation was presented by Harris at the 76th       Nestl&#233; Nutrition Institute at its scientific workshop in Oxford (UK) on 15       August 2012 during the London Olympic Games, a workshop in which a       multidisciplinary group of scientists, athletes, and coaches discussed the       latest scientific evidence on the effectiveness of micronutrients and       exercise performance.
Nestl&#233; Nutrition Institute has 180,000 registered       users and "shares leading science- based information and education with         health professionals, scientists and nutrition communities and         stakeholders".
The lecture by Professor Harris on the "Ergogenic       properties of beta-alanine" is freely available on-line (http://www.nestlenutrition-institute.org).
