     For a population of one million, the average population served by a large       acute UK teaching hospital, there will be 2,000 incident strokes per annum       and 10,000 prevalent strokes alive at any one time.
Nearly 11,000 of these       stroke victims will require antihypertensive therapy, and lowering       systolic blood pressure by an average of 10mmHg will prevent over 180       recurrent strokes per annum.
Given that the usual outcome from recurrent       stroke is that a third of patients die and a third are left with moderate       to severe disability (requiring assistance with personal care on a daily       basis), better and more timely prevention of recurrent stroke has       significant cost benefit for health and social services, as well as       personal benefit for patients and their families.
Importantly, the risk of       recurrent stroke is front-loaded after the presenting transient ischaemic       attack (TIA or mini-stroke) or stroke, and therefore prompt introduction       of blood pressure-lowering therapy is essential.
Changes to UK and US stroke guidelines     The COSSACS trial (CI: Robinson) has provided evidence that       continuing blood pressure-lowering therapy, a clinical dilemma in 50% of       stroke patients, in patients with minor stroke is safe and associated with       a 14% reduction in 2-week death and dependency.
Indeed, COSSACS has       directly impacted on the most recent iterations of both the UK and US       stroke guidelines.
The Guidelines for the Early Management of Patients       with Acute Ischemic Stroke, jointly published by the American Heart       Association and American Stroke Association in 2013 [1], incorporates a       revision from the previous version: `Evidence from one clinical trial       indicates that initiation of antihypertensive therapy is relatively safe.
Restarting antihypertensive medications is reasonable after the first 24       hours for patients who have pre-existing hypertension and are       neurologically stable unless a specific contraindication to restarting       treatment is known'.
From a UK perspective, the latest iteration of the National Clinical       Guidelines for Stroke [2] has also changed, reflecting the publication of       the COSSACS trial, stating: `Non-dysphagic patients admitted on       antihypertensive medication should continue oral treatment unless there is       a contraindication'.
The INTERACT2 trial (UK CI: Robinson) has provided evidence that       intensive (compared to standard) blood pressure-lowering within six hours       of acute intracerebral haemorrhage onset , the most devastating cause of       stroke, is safe and associated with a significant 13% shift towards better       outcome at three months.
The current revision to the US stroke guidelines       was delayed pending the publication of the INTERACT2 results, and the       latest revision is presently awaited.
Change to guidelines impacts on medical practice worldwide     This change in both UK and US guidelines affects the way in which stroke       patients are managed around the world, enabling practitioners to prescribe       oral antihypertensive treatment in nearly all patients within the first       few days of mildly or non-disabling stroke, with resulting improvements to       patient outcomes (1, 2, 3).
Furthermore, there is now evidence that       intensive blood pressure lowering in intracerebral haemorrhage is safe,       and associated with improved functional outcome for the most devastating       form of stroke (4, 5).
