     Scott at al's research has had impact in the sense of having "made a       contribution to critical public debate around policy" (REF Panel C       criteria, section C3, para.
80).
It was considered by the government       during the scrutiny of Lord Lester's aborted Defamation Bill 2010 and was       relied on in the parliamentary debates culminating in the passing of the       Defamation Act 2013.
The research is referred to in numerous parliamentary       publications, including a House of Commons Library Briefing Paper and       House of Lords Library Note.
Scott relied on it when he gave evidence to       the Ministry of Justice Libel Working Group and to the Joint Select       Committee on Defamation.
The Ministry of Justice Libel Working Group considered the research in       detail and cited it in its report (section 5, source 1).
The research was       circulated among all MPs and Peers by a lobby group ('Lawyers for Media       Standards'), and was extensively quoted in a House of Commons Library       Briefing Paper (section 5, source 2 at p. 4), and in a House of Lords       Library Note (section 5, source 3, at pp.
3-4, 11 and 12) in advance of       the Second Reading debate on the Defamation Bill 2010.
Elements of the       argument presented by Lord Triesman during the House of Lords' Second       Reading debate (section 5, source 4) expressly rely on Mullis and Scott       2011a.
Scott was invited in April 2011 to meet with Ministry of Justice       officials to discuss the Draft Defamation Bill (now Defamation Act 2013)       and the proposals set out in Mullis and Scott 2012a and 2012b.
He also       gave written and oral evidence to the Joint Select Committee on Defamation       in May 2011.
In its report, the Select Committee cited Scott's evidence       explicitly and reiterated the central theme of the research when observing       that:     the key to reducing costs lies not only in reform of the law but, more       significantly, in changes to the way it operates in practice.... New       mechanisms and streamlined procedures are required to enable parties to       settle disputes more quickly and therefore cheaply (section 5, source 5 at       para.10).
(Other core themes of the research, such as "the importance of the law       being accessible to the ordinary person" (section 5, source 5 at para.13)       are also evident in the Select Committee's report, though they are not       explicitly linked to the research itself.)
On the issue of jurisdiction in libel law &#8212; the 'libel tourism' debate &#8212;       a high level workshop was organised by LSE in January 2009.
Participants       included the Chairman of the House of Commons Select Committee on Culture,       Media and Sport who indicated that the discussions would bear       significantly on the subsequent inquiry into Press Standards, Libel         and Privacy.
Following this event, Scott briefed the Select       Committee in advance of its inquiry, while Hartley advised Ministry of       Justice officials on the construction of clause 7 of the Draft Defamation       Bill, which focuses on jurisdiction.
The Ministry of Justice Libel Working Group (section 5, source 1 esp.
at       pp.
19-21) recommended a single publication rule in preference to the       defence of non-culpable republication.
This matter was reviewed in the       oral and written evidence submitted by Scott to the Joint Committee.
In       its report, the MoJ Working Group noted explicitly the option of       introducing a 'non-culpable republication' defence (with reference to       Scott's evidence), although it ultimately preferred the introduction of       the alternative rule (section 5, source 5 at para.
58).
The research has impacted on broader policy debate.
For instance, the       Joint Committee asserted that "a rapid public correction, explanation or       apology is often the remedy most valued by the claimant" (section 5,       source 5, paras 10 and 30).
This is a key proposition to be found in       Mullis and Scott 2012a (esp.
at pp.16-21) and was emphasized by Scott to       the Committee in written evidence, and was raised specifically in relation       to internet regulation during the oral evidence session.
The Joint Committee requested additional evidence from key witnesses on       the feasibility of the bifurcated approach to the determination of libel       claims as recommended by Scott (section 5, source 5 vol.
II at 21).
It       concluded that:     the Government [should] explore further the development of a voluntary,       media-orientated forum for dispute resolution in the context of the       current review of the regulatory regime governing the media (section 5,       source 5 para.
84).
This has become the more broadly preferred option in the wake of the       widespread public focus on the future of media regulation.
Finally, in line with a key proposition of Scott's research on the costs       regime, the Committee recommended that the Government should review its       current plans afresh "with a view to protecting further the interests of       those without substantial financial means" (section 5, source 5 at p.12       and para.
89).
Why the impact matters.
Scott et al's research has significantly       informed discussions and law reform proposals concerning the feasibility       of a single-publication rule, and appropriate choice-of jurisdiction       rules, in libel law.
Their defence of a revised multiple-publication       principle &#8212; the proposed new defence of "non-culpable republication" &#8212; is       an important contribution to current legal policy debate.
