     Although the Substantive Equality Unit (SEU) was set up in 2005, the       Commissioner for Equal Opportunity in WA, Yvonne Henderson, attests in her       written reference (a) that it "continues to operate as a key element         in the delivery of equitable services across the whole of the WA         governmental operation".
According to the 2011 census data, this       state of Australia has a population of 2,239,170, 3.1% (69,664) of which       are Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, with languages spoken at       home other than English including Mandarin (1.3%), Cantonese (0.8%),       Vietnamese (0.7%), and Arabic (0.5%).
Although the focus of the SEU is on       `race', intersecting characteristics such as gender, disability, age, and       geographical location or isolation are equally important factors       considered by it.
The initial input by Husband was to develop an agreed       theoretical framework for an understanding of the nature of the sources       and forms of discrimination likely to be in operation; and to develop an       agreed policy framework for addressing this in relation to the delivery of       services by all departments of the Government.
In this he drew on his       academic studies of racism and discrimination in relation to media       practice, social work services, nursing, and the wider politics of       national policy development around `multiculturalism'.
This translated       into sensitivity towards the particular expression of multiculturalism in       the context of the distinctive history of Australian identity and       politics.
A key issue was to agree upon the centrality of `institutional racism',       since this placed the focus on changing institutional behaviours,       institutional practice, and managerial values rather than upon individual       prejudice.
In the context of Australia with its self-image as a successful       multi-ethnic society characterised by its commitment to `a fair go', this       perspective was not entirely welcome.
Thus an initial key activity was to       carry through a programme of education for key policy makers and       practitioners about the perspectives they held on the legitimacy of       addressing state institutional practice.
Given the emphasis in Husband's       work on valuing difference, theoretically a major breakthrough was in       gaining a shared understanding of what `equal treatment' might mean, and       in this regard the use of the phrase "If you want to treat me equally         you might have to be prepared to treat me differently", was key.
Practically, the development and use of `Needs and Impact Assessment'       tools as a vehicle for levering change was also crucial.
The structure for       the implementation of this new policy was deliberately designed to be       gradualist and cumulative, and is clearly laid out in the Unit's       documentation.
This structure is still in place as an on-going, long-term       framework of the SEU in its work to shape the policies of specific       government departments and positively affect the quality and accessibility       of their services for minorities.
For example, the 2011-2012 Annual Report notes that: "Following on         from its initial education stages engaging CEOs, Senior Officers and         Implementing Officers from the 31 participating WA Government agencies         (including the Commission), in its sixth year the Substantive Equality         Unit is now expanding its reach to the wider WA public sector and         community... Now there is greater understanding of Substantive Equality         ... and of the one size does not fit all concepts for public sector         policies and practices, the 31 participating departments are going         beyond their assessments of existing policies and practices by         undertaking a Substantive Equality pilot program which involves the         assessment of new policies and initiatives.
In addition to the pilot         program and the expansion of its work to the community and wider public         sector, the SEU continues its support work in education, research and         monitoring with the 31 existing departments."
(b).
The education programme was followed by the introduction of impact and       needs assessments to influence current practice, the format of which can       be found in the Substantive Equality Guide (2012) (c).
An example of how       these work in practice can be found in the 2011-12 Annual Report (b),       which shows the SEU continuing its three-year impact study with the       Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages to further research the       disproportionate number of Aboriginal Australians without a birth       certificate.
The aim is to quantify the problem and identify the obstacles       this group faces in accessing the birth registration system: then to       create culturally appropriate remedies in the birth registry process.
Additionally, specific reports on interventions show how the impact and       needs assessments continue to be a key starting point for reviewing       current practice and making recommendations for systemic change.
The       report of the Disability Services Commission (2011) (d) &#8212; Substantive       Equality Unit Project No 4, Positive Behaviour Teams &#8212; details the outcome       of an examination of the teams within the State-wide Specialist Services       Directorate of the Disability Services Commission.
Through employing the       established method of the SEU &#8212; interviewing service users from minority       backgrounds, agencies who work with them, service workers and other       concerned parties &#8212; this review provided an examination of the adequacy of       current practice for meeting the needs of people of Aboriginal and CALD       (culturally and linguistically diverse) backgrounds.
The report identified       seven areas with specific recommendations for change.
The implementation       of these recommendations will now become a mutual process of dialogue       between the Disability Services Commission and SEU.
At a different level,       the more specific review of the usage of a public park &#8212; Review of         Customer Service at Whiteman Park, Department of Planning (e) &#8212;       revealed `some gaps in the services provided to the parks customers from       CALD backgrounds.'
An identification of these `gaps' resulted in the       production of 11 recommendations for innovation.
Because these       recommendations were published in 2011-12 there is as yet no evidence as       to how successfully they were delivered.
However, each recommendation was       attached to a named responsible officer with a stated time frame for       completion of the innovation, to improve access and usage of the park for       those from CALD backgrounds.
Current initiatives being developed by the SEU in partnership with other       government departments include developing the provision of mobile breast       screening unit to remote Aboriginal peoples; increasing the percentage of       Aboriginal people holding drivers licences; and modifying the means of       communication with Aboriginal and CALD clients.
The enduring strength of the Substantive Equality Policy lies not only in       the specific initiatives of the SEU, but also in the way the equality       policy is influencing the functions, policies and practices of individual       government departments.
For example, in the area of housing, a 2009 report       of the SEU looked at the experiences of Aboriginal and CALD people in the       private housing rental market and made 15 recommendations to improve their       treatment in this sector.
These recommendations included training and       guidelines for industry operators, legislative regulation of tenancy       databases, national consistency of legislation, and support for CALD and       Aboriginal people to access and maintain a tenancy (f).
A 2011 report on       the outcomes of these recommendations showed that, while there was still a       long way to go to achieving equality in the housing market, training for       industry operators had been set up and operationalised; guidelines had       been prepared in the form of a booklet drawing the attention of operators       to the requirements on them in existing equality laws; and legislation       currently being drafted to regulate tenancy databases takes into account       the findings of the 2009 report (g).
The report on outcomes concludes that,         "through the full and partial achievement of the recommendations and         other initiatives, some of the barriers [for Aboriginal and CALD people         in the housing market] identified in the original Report will gradually         be removed."
(g).
Thus the SEU, the establishment and shaping of       which Husband played such a key role in, continues to impact on the lives       and opportunities of minority groups living in the province of WA,       influencing government departments "to make [their] services better         tailored to meet the needs of all their clients" (a).
It is helping       to improve social inclusion in the region by influencing policy and       practice in order to increase the accessibility, take-up, and use of       services by people from minority backgrounds.
