     The research into food safety, quality and sustainability focussed on       understanding the mechanisms, opportunities and constraints of private       standards and strategies to identify, measure, manage and communicate       risks (hygiene, quality, environmental, social, economic or reputational)       when encountered.
This has helped governments (Australia and Canada) and       industry to develop their own strategies to manage such risks and has led       to further research and impacts as below.
Impact 1.
Government and Industry Guidance on Global Environmental,         Social and Market Standards for Agriculture and Food Industries.
Based on the underpinning research described in section 2, especially the       work for the Canadian Government, the Safe Quality Food Institute (SQFi,       Arlington VA, USA) commissioned Dr Baines to develop two new training       modules for primary producers and the food industry globally.
The       Responsible Environmental module and the Employee Care module consisted of       standards, guidance, training materials and recommended audit checklists.
These standards have since been combined into the SQF Ethical Sourcing       Code (2010), a voluntary module to run alongside the mandatory Food Safety       &amp; Quality plans of SQF1000 (farms) and SQF2000 (food businesses).
Compliance with this Code allows SQF certified businesses to meet the       ethical requirements of many of the global retailers such as M&amp;S and       Sainsbury's in the UK.
Impact 2.
Farmer Engagement linked to Risk Perceptions and Management     The underpinning research funded by RELU (Baines et al, 2007) led       to the project funded by the Department for International Development       (DfID) through the Commark Trust which developed a model based on       articulating farm and food standards to improve market access and quality       of farmer produce.
Then, through farmer engagement, a joint venture       between Zambian smallholders and Mack Multiples (a major produce       integrator in the UK) was established.
This joint venture (ZSSG) currently       includes over 50 growers with a target to involve 200 small farmers;       furthermore, produce from these growers has been on UK supermarket shelves       since 2012 (avocado) and in South African supermarkets (melons).
"The Royal Agricultural College was responsible for researching and       collating a feasibility study of this project on behalf of Mack Multiples       while facilitating the input of Standard Bank and the Small Scale growers.
The Royal Agricultural College will follow the implementation of this       project and write it up as a case study as a record for future       implementation should this model be implemented in other countries.
Mack       Multiples have requested that the Royal Agricultural College have 2%       voting rights on the PMO Board".
(quote from Mack Multiples project       document, available on request)     Impact 3.
Emerging Policy on Sustainable Livestock in the UK.
Research commissioned by the Princes Rainforest Project (Baines, 2008)       was used to underpin evidence given to Conference of the Parties (COP) 15       in 2009.
Subsequent to this Baines &amp; Jones (2010) carried out       research for Friends of the Earth (FoE) which was incorporated in their       report "Pastures New: a sustainable future for meat and dairy farming"       published on their website http://www.foe.co.uk/news/pastures_new_24660     "Pastures New : This report summarises the RAC's key findings as       well as drawing on Friends of the Earth's own research.
It includes case       studies to illustrate planet-friendly farming in action.
It is aimed at       farmers, policy makers, campaigners and MPs, but will prove essential       reading for anyone interested in food and the environment.
It concludes       with a series of recommendations, mainly to Government, to achieve a more       sustainable future for livestock farming in the UK."
(FoE)     This document also makes it clear that the RAC research was used as key       evidence in FoE's campaign for a new law ultimately aimed at protecting       rain forests.
An independent Bill was introduced in Parliament in 2010       which `Required the Secretary of State to prepare and implement a strategy       to improve the sustainability of livestock farming and the sustainability       of the consumption of livestock products; and for connected purposes'.
During the debate on 12 November       http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201011/cmhansrd/cm101112/debtext/101112-         0001.htm the Government gave its reasons for voting against the       Sustainable Livestock Bill.
However, FoE argued that this new law would       have been a big step towards preventing UK meat and dairy production from       destroying rainforests and leading to massive climate-changing emissions.
