     Jackson was appointed to the HFEA in 2003, largely as a result of her       published research, and most notably her 2001 book, Regulating         Reproduction.
From 2008 to 2012, she was the HFEA's Deputy Chair.
Since 2003, there has been a number of policy changes in relation to the       pre-conception welfare principle, all of which have brought it more into       line with the position advocated in Jackson's 2001 book and 2002 article       (section 5, sources 1 and 2).
In 2005, the HFEA changed its policy on the       `welfare of the child' assessments that clinics were required to carry out       before offering treatment.
These were transformed into `welfare of the       child risk assessments', in which the clinic is under a duty to       consider whether the child is at risk of serious harm, rather than to       assess whether the would-be parents would be likely to be good parents.
The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act was subsequently amended (2008)       so that, instead of requiring clinics to take into account the child's       `need for a father' before offering treatment, the requirement is now to       take into account the child's `need for supportive parenting'.
The impact of Jackson's research can further be seen in the HFEA's 8th       Code of Practice (which came into force on 1 October 2009).
This       stipulates that clinicians &#8212; so that they might address the supportive       parenting requirement appropriately &#8212; should be subject to the following       provision: `It is presumed that all prospective parents will be supportive       parents, in the absence of any reasonable cause for concern that any child       who may be born, or any other child, may be at risk of significant harm or       neglect.'
(HFEA 8th Code of Practice, para 8.11).
Only if there is evidence to back up the assertion that any child to be       born would be at risk of significant harm and neglect, perhaps because the       couple have already had previous children taken into care, could a       clinician justify refusing treatment to a couple or individual on child       welfare grounds.
This means that the process for people seeking fertility       treatment is now less discriminatory and intrusive.
Contrary to previous       HFEA guidance, clinicians are no longer routinely required to approach a       potential patient's GP to inquire about their fitness to parent.
The new process is also less bureaucratic.
A recent major piece of       empirical research, looking at the ways in which child welfare is       currently assessed in fertility clinics (E. Lee et al, Assessing Child         Welfare under the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act: The New Law       (section 5, source 4, p.19) cites Jackson's 2002 article as playing an       important role in stimulating debates over the pre-conception welfare       principle:     As outlined in the previous section, the subsequent years saw on-going       discussion about the problem of `stereotyped opinions' (eventually       resolved formally through the removal of `the need for a father' as part       of the wording of s13(5)), and additionally the development of both       important debate about the desirability and plausibility of assessing `the       welfare of the child' before conception (see especially Jackson 2002,       2008) and protracted attempts to develop more meaningful guidance for       clinics on welfare assessments on the part of the HFEA.... As noted       previously, some have set out substantive objections to the meaningfulness       and moral integrity of the statutory demand for `welfare of the child'       assessments prior to conception (Jackson 2002, 2008).
According to Professor Lisa Jardine CBE, Chair of the HFEA:     "Arguments and material from [Professor Emily Jackson's] research have       consistently underpinned and supported decisions taken by the Authority.
She has drawn directly on her research to inform discussions both in       committee, and in full Authority meetings.
I and my members have on a       number of occasions modified our discussion and decision-making based on       interventions Professor Jackson has made.
I can say with confidence that       decisions of the HFEA during the period of her membership have depended       directly on arguments drawn from her research.
It is hard to imagine a       more direct impact of academic research on public business and outcomes       than this....
The HFEA's guidance has shifted significantly over the course of Emily       Jackson's membership of the Authority from a fairly restrictive model       towards one in which all patients are presumed to be supportive parents,       in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
This shift has been driven by       a number of factors, one of which is the increasing recognition &#8212; set out       with particular clarity and force in Jackson's 2001 book and 2002 article       &#8212; that it is unfair and potentially discriminatory to subject infertile       people to special scrutiny before they are allowed to make the decision to       start a family."
(Section 5, source 1.)
Jackson's research on the pre-conception welfare principle has also been       cited in policy documents in other jurisdictions, most notably Victoria,       Australia (section 5, source 5), where a similar change has taken place:       see, in particular, Victorian Law Reform Commission, Assisted         Reproductive Technology and Adoption: Final Report (No.
10 session,       2007), p. 27 (at       http://www.lawreform.vic.gov.au/projects/art-adoption/art-and-adoption-final-report),       citing Jackson 2001 and her `Fertility Treatment: Abolish the Welfare       Principle', Spiked 11 June 2003 at       http://www.spiked-online.com/newsite/article/5272#.Uo9pGl9FDGg       (a summarized version of the 2002 MLR article).
Why the impact matters.
As a consequence of Jackson's research,       the law has been altered so that infertile people seeking fertility       treatment are now presumed to be fit to parent and so are no longer       subjected to an intrusive and discriminatory assessment procedure.
