     The pilot and follow on research has had a significant and enduring       transformative impact on the       development of national and local policies which guide the response to       diversity in the 124 prisons       of England and Wales.
These significant enhancements to policy and       practice were enabled by       the creation of Executive Steering Groups for both research projects       (a,b).
Constituted by key,       national and local, policy stakeholders these groups facilitated       engagement with and       understanding of research findings as they emerged, enabling rapid uptake       and response at a       policy level (c,d).
The substantial reach of impacts arising from the pilot research is       attested to by the Head of       NOMS Equalities Group (the policy unit for diversity issues) who       commissioned copies of the       research report for distribution across the entire prison estate and       confirms its impact in shaping       the national equalities framework policy launched in 2011 (c,d).
This       impact on policy was further       extended within the High Security estate by the researchers' direct       engagement of prison       governors responsible for managing diversity in their own establishments.
The enduring impact of the pilot research is evidenced by NOMS subsequent       decision making.
For example, in 2010, NOMS Equalities Group adopted a key recommendation       of the research;       that there should be greater prisoner consultation when developing       guidance for prison staff about       diversity.
The significance of adopting this recommendation for prison       stakeholders nationally, is       attested to by the Head of Equalities Group (c,d) and locally, by the       Governing Governor of the       pilot prison (e,f).
Both sources highlight benefits to prison staff in       terms of improved support and       subsequent confidence in responding appropriately and effectively to       diversity issues and indirect       benefits to prisoners through their lived experience of staff responses to       them.
The Head of Equalities group also attests that the conclusion of the       research that AI is a       methodology effective in engaging prisoners and staff in the often       negatively focussed prison       environment impacted their decision making when commissioning future       research.
For example,       the decision by NOMS to commission NACRO (National Association for the       Care and       Rehabilitation of Offenders) to adopt a similar approach in the design of       equality impact       assessment and to produce improved guidance for prison staff to enable       them to more effectively       undertake prisoner consultation (c,d).
Drawing on other findings of the research, NOMS also commissioned good       practice guidance and       a national training package for prisoner equalities representatives and       developed mediatory rather       than adversarial methods for dealing with complaints relating to diversity       issues (c,d).
The       importance to NOMS of being able to demonstrate the significance of these       impacts in terms of       the benefits they have generated for individual prisons, staff and       prisoners is evidenced by their       commitment to and collaboration with the third ESRC funded research       project currently being       undertaken by the University of Bradford team and will form part of our       future impact reporting.
The reach of impact extends beyond policy to improvements for       practitioners and prison service       professionals.
For example, prior to the pilot research, prisoners       reported race related inequality       via the RIRF system (Racial Incident Reporting Form).
However, there was       no mechanism to       report other forms of diversity related inequality.
The pilot research       recommended this system be       changed to a DIRF (Discrimination Incident Reporting Form) (a).
This       recommendation was       subsequently adopted and is incorporated in the national PSI-32 issued       14.04.2011 (g).
The reach       and significance of this impact is extensive since the DIRF remains the only       mechanism that the       80,193 prisoners from all protected minorities (NOMS, March 2012) have to       report inequality and       discrimination they are experiencing.
The research also highlighted that       prisoners preferred non-adversarial       methods of resolving issues relating to diversity and inequality (a).
This       confirmed to       NOMS the importance of face-to-face interactions between staff and       prisoners in ensuring fairness       in prisons and influenced its decision to introduce structured       communications techniques in the       prison setting (c,d).
The follow on research also generated impacts which had both local       significance and national       reach and significance.
The research was delivered via a series of       innovative, knowledge       exchange workshops where prison staff and/or prisoners worked with       diversity experts.
The research influenced the development of reference guides to assist       staff in respecting diversity       when searching prisoners.
The Governing Governor of the pilot prison has       described how an audit       of security searching subsequent to the workshop demonstrated improved       staff confidence in       searching prisoners from diverse minorities (f).
Whilst this demonstrates       a direct benefit to staff, it       also benefits prisoners through more dignified and respectful searching of       their person and       belongings.
A second workshop was undertaken with prisoners who were       working as       representatives for diversity on their residential wings.
The workshop       developed the       representatives' appreciation of the intersectional nature of diversity       and encouraged them to       develop strategies for supporting others which moved beyond their previous       focus on singular       strands of diversity.
Subsequently, the representatives used this       understanding to produce and       implement a training package to help new prisoner diversity       representatives understand diversity       from an intersectional perspective.
This training package has been shared       with all eight prisons       within the High Security Estate benefitting diversity representatives and       those diverse minority       prisoners they support.
Wider, national reach and significance were generated by a final workshop       which focussed on the       development of policy and practice relating to prisoner sexuality, in       particular transgender.
Learning arising from this workshop was subsequently incorporated into       training materials for the       management of transsexual prisoners by the National Prison Service trainer       who attended the       workshop (h).
This enabled transmission of the learning across the local       and wider national       workforce.
The same workshop impacted on the creation of a local policy       for the management of       transgender prisoners which was subsequently shared between prisons within       the High Security       estate (e,f).
This local policy was significant as, at that time, a       national policy had not yet been       released (i).
Beneficiaries of this policy included transgender prisoners       at the local prison and       subsequently in the wider High Security estate and the prison staff       responsible for their care by       providing clarity about respectful and decent treatment of transgender       offenders in terms of access       to facilities, personal searching techniques, and the rights and       responsibilities of both staff and       transgender offenders.
