     The unique nature and rigour of the underpinning research led       directly to its widespread use and hence its impact.
Without the research,       since 1973 and continuing through this REF period, there would not have       been the models, data, techniques or policy impact that we have achieved.
Our 2005 `Multi-Coloured Manual", current throughout the 2008-13 REF       period, has attracted over 38,000 UK Google citations.
Our heavily used       Manuals (Penning-Rowsell  et al.
2013) have been central       to the process through which our research has led to this impact.
They       have been supported by peer-reviewed papers, and endorsed by successive       government departments, with commendations by MAFF/Defra Chief Engineers       and the Environment Agency (EA):            2013 (Jonathan Day, EA) `This Manual represents the results of           intensive high-quality research ....representing the continuing close           collaboration between us'.
2010 (Aidan Kerr, EA) `The Handbook provides users with techniques           that fully support (our) sustainable development principles'.
2005 (Reg Purnell, Defra): `The Manual is seen by Defra as ...           (providing) a single appraisal compendium ... that supports (our           policy) of sustainable development'.
1992: (Reg Purnell, MAFF): `This Manual fills a significant vacuum           and ... will be an important guide to engineers and others...'       1987 (Brian Trafford, MAFF) `... the FHRC ... has been at the           forefront in developing methods (of obtaining value for money for)           flood protection projects ...
I commend this work'.
1977 (Gordon Cole, MAFF): `It is a unique contribution to our           knowledge'.
These Manuals have been in constant and routine professional use       throughout the REF period by the Environment Agency, consultancy firms and       local authorities.
Furthermore, the material within these Manuals has been       communicated to professional practitioners in this field via repeated CPD       courses run by the FHRC from 1978 to today.
In the 2008 to 2013 period       alone we have run 32 such courses for Environment Agency staff and others,       training a total of 906 professionals.
The nature and extent of the impact       The reach of this research has been profound within the UK, with       complementary international extensions (e.g.
through the EU Floodsite       and FLOOD-CBA projects, and the `E-Learning Platform for Integrated Flood       Management (IFM)').
As a result of our research, the flood risks       experienced or faced by at-risk communities, businesses and farmers have       been fully recognised, quantified, and all investment has then been       prioritised on this basis.
Hitherto, investment had generally followed       those who `shouted loudest', rather than rigorous research-driven       prioritisation.
Our research has been used to implement all UK flood risk       management/defence schemes implemented in the REF period (total spending       amounts to over &#163;3bn).
The precursor research supported all comparable       expenditure from 1977 to 2008 (a further &#163;10-&#163;12 billions at 2013 prices).
See p. 30 in:       http://archive.defra.gov.uk/environment/flooding/documents/policy/guidance/erosion-manage.pdf,     Our research on human fatalities and health effects during floods has       been instrumental in influencing Defra policy and EA practice through the       quantitative incorporation of these variables into project appraisal       techniques (e.g.
see the EA's FCERM-AG, p. 205: http://www.environment-agency.gov.uk/research/planning/116705.aspx       ).
Our data and techniques have been used in the National Assessment of       Flood Risk (NAFRA), in the appraisal of flood options for London (TE2100),       and in the influential 2004 Foresight report on Future Flooding, and it's       2008 Supplement to the Pitt Report:       (http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20100807034701/http://archive.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/pittreview/_/media/assets/www.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/flooding_review/evidence/foresight_report%20pdf.pdf).
Our unique sets of models, data and techniques, and the Manuals/papers       which explain their research origins, are `industry standard' sources in       flood risk management implementation in the UK.
Our results are also       central to the long-term investment strategy (LTIS) of the Environment       Agency, which sets the policy direction for investment in flood risk       management for the future in this country.
Corroborations and       corroborators to all these impacts are listed in section 5.
The beneficiaries       The significance of this research is attested to by the number of       those directly or indirectly affected.
The direct beneficiaries in 2008-13       have been hundreds of communities across the UK who have gained from       having investment in flood defence and flood risk management schemes to       protect them from the floods from which they otherwise would have       suffered.
The 2012/13 investment programme alone included 323 different schemes.
These communities include 100,000s of people and the several millions in       London protected by the FHRC research guided `TE 2100' plan.
Further       beneficiaries include the owners of thousands of hectares of agricultural       land and hundreds of thousands of businesses protected from flooding,       including those in the cities of Lincoln, Manchester, Newcastle, Bradford,       Leeds, Exeter, Glasgow, Belfast, as well as many other metropolitan areas.
Our work is always cited in MAFF/Defra/EA policy papers and by SEPA in       Scotland (see source 3 below).
Defra/MAFF officials have consistently       confirmed, following their experience of successive Spending Reviews, that       Treasury allocations to flood defence budgets would not have been as high       as they have been, nor the value to the taxpayer as great, without the       rigour of our research supporting the key investment decisions.
Indeed the       FHRC research guided Foresight Future Flooding work led to a &#163;200m       p.a.
increase in capital spend within the 2008-13 REF period.
