     The extensive programme of research undertaken at Essex has demonstrated       that Green Exercise can yield benefits both to health and well-being.
These findings have significant implications, and through proactive       dissemination and via externally commissioned projects, Essex's research       has had an impact on the policies and practices of a number of health and       environmental organisations.
It has also informed a consumer engagement       campaign in the private sector.
Impact on Mind: For many years the British mental health charity       Mind has campaigned to enhance the use of alternative treatments to help       tackle the UK's growing problem of poor mental health.
The charity       recognised that Green Exercise had the potential to not only offer a       cost-effective solution, but also to avoid the adverse side-effects often       associated with clinical treatments.
Following the group's research to       explore the available benefits of Green Exercise to mental health       (specifically amongst vulnerable groups), Mind commissioned Essex to       undertake two Green Exercise studies in 2007.
These studies found that       people experiencing mental health distress were frequently using physical       activities to help lift their mood, reduce stress, provide purpose and       meaning, and reduce vulnerability to depression.
Furthermore, it was shown       that such activity helped develop motivation and self-esteem, and that       contact with other people was helping to reduce isolation, provide support       and improve social skills.
In recognition of their significance, Mind published the results of the       studies in the 2007 report Ecotherapy: The Green Agenda for Mental         Health.
This called for the concepts of Green Exercise to be       considered amongst mainstream treatment options [see corroborating source       1].
A letter of support from Mind's Community Portfolio Manager details       how the report was then used to support a successful Big Lottery funding       bid, to develop the `Ecominds' grant programme [2].
Beginning in 2008,       this was a &#163;7.5M, five year initiative which facilitated 130 environmental       projects nationwide, promoting mental health via green activity engagement       [3].
Mind's Community Portfolio Manager explains how:     "Ecominds projects help people living with mental health problems get       involved in green activities to improve confidence, self-esteem, and their       physical and mental health.
Participants learn about exercise, healthy       eating, recycling and sustainable environments, whilst all the while       finding support and friendship, and gaining employment training.
By       engaging with their local communities many projects are also transforming       derelict land and helping to break down the stigma of mental health.
[...]       In summary, Ecominds projects are having a profound impact upon a       significant proportion of our population, and widespread health and       wellbeing benefits have been reported nationwide.
Green Exercise       researchers at Essex played an important role in helping this outcome to       be achieved".
Community Portfolio Manager, Mind     The extensive impact of Ecominds-funded projects, along with widespread       positive feedback from project participants, is also summarised in the       2013 report Ecominds Directory of Projects 2009-2013 [4].
Although       many Ecominds activities have now completed their original funded work,       most of the 130 projects are still providing some type of environmental       activity for participants, and many have successfully obtained new funds       to continue their activities [5].
Since the launch of Ecominds, Essex       researchers have also remained actively involved in the programme,       undertaking evaluation exercises [6].
Impact on environmental organisations: Green Exercise research has       also had an impact on environmental organisations.
This has primarily been       through the use of research findings to inform organisational strategies       and communication with the public.
For instance, having adopted the term       `Green Exercise' following Essex's early research in 2003, in 2012 Natural       England (NE) cited the Essex Dose of Nature paper in an       evidence-based information pack, highlighting why the natural environment       should form an integral part of public health [7].
Essex's work has also       informed Natural England's own research strategies.
For example, in 2010       Essex research was cited in a presentation by NE's strategic health       advisor at a LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming) UK event [8].
Essex       staff are also regularly invited to contribute to strategic research       meetings at NE through the `Outdoors for All' advisory group.
Finally,       Natural England drew upon Essex's Green Exercise research in their       response to the 2011 Office for National Statistics consultation on how       national well-being should be measured [9], to argue that proximity to       nature is a significant determinant of health and well-being.
Impact in the private sector: In 2012 the sports bra manufacturer       Shock Absorber launched a consumer engagement campaign entitled `Get Out       There' (GOT), to promote the benefits of exercising outdoors.
Based on her       extensive Green Exercise research at Essex, Dr Barton was asked to act as       spokesperson and ambassador for the campaign.
The campaign drew directly       upon Essex's research, for instance, by promoting the findings that       exercising outdoors can significantly boost mood and self-esteem.
The GOT       campaign was facilitated by the public relations company Iris PR, which       reported the positive outcomes and widespread coverage that the campaign       generated.
This included 35 pieces of online coverage and 8 pieces of       print coverage, contributing to over 40% more media deliverables than were       originally targeted by the campaign.
It is clear from the campaign       evaluation that Barton's contribution to the project was an important       factor in securing such widespread coverage, for example, by undertaking       interviews with the Daily Telegraph and BBC Radio Nottingham [10, see       pages 42, 69].
Finally, in a wider context and independently of the GOT campaign, it       should be noted that the Essex group's public engagement and dissemination       activities have been significant in heightening awareness and raising the       public profile of Green Exercise research.
Notably, within the REF2014       impact period, Essex research has featured on NHS Choices (the UK's       largest health website) which, in 2010, highlighted the research showing       that just five minutes of Green Exercise can boost mental health [11].
The       same piece of research was drawn upon by the BBC [12], whose coverage has       also featured Essex on a number of other occasions over the past five       years [13] [14].
