     Burdett's work for the UK Government's Urban Task Force and later the       London Olympic Delivery Authority (see below) is part of a more sustained       engagement with better urban living, brownfield sites re-development, and       green city economies that has been carried out by LSE Cities:     A. Brownfield Sites and More Liveable Places: The `framework of       design principles for creating more liveable places', and criteria for the       evaluation of urban proposals developed by Burdett for the UK government's       Urban Task Force (of which Burdett was a member), formed the basis of       recommendations to the Department of the Environment, Transport and the       Regions (DETR) to `revise planning and funding guidance to: discourage       `density' and `overdevelopment' as reasons for refusing planning       permission' (Urban Task Force, p 85).
The findings of Density and         Urban Neighbourhoods in London were presented to DETR and Cabinet       Office officials in the period leading to the formulation of new policies       on urban development.
As a result, policy recommendations on `designing       for quality' and `making the best use of land' were included in Planning       Policy Guidance 3: Housing (PPG3) issued by the DETR in 2000 and       subsequent revisions Planning Policy Statement 3: Housing (PPS3) in 2006       and 2011 (Source A).
These policies signalled a shift in favour of intensification of       brownfield sites across English cities, with measurable impacts on urban       policy, including the London Plan (the Mayor's strategic development       framework).
Burdett's research and role as Adviser on Architecture and       Urbanism to the Mayor of London (2000-2006) contributed to the GLA policy       document Housing for a Compact City (2003, pp.
19 &amp; 21).
This       forms the basis of the Density Matrix which recommends minimum density       levels of new development in sites in relation to their public transport       accessibility levels (pg.
26), and has been adopted by the 2004 London       Plan (Table 4B.1, pg.
177) and its replacement (Table 3.2, pg.
85, London       Plan (2011), (Source B) as well as the London Housing Design Guide (GLA,       2010, pg.
29) and Housing Supplementary Planning Guidance (GLA, 2012, pg.
32).
The direct effect of these policies was to shape local government urban       policy in favour of higher density developments in areas with good public       transport accessibility.
Key examples include revised planning frameworks       by the London boroughs of Hackney (Core Strategy: Hackney's strategic       planning policies for 2010-2015, 2010, pp.
114-115, 158) and Tower Hamlets       (Core Strategy and Development Control Plan, 2007, pp.
291-292).
This       strategy was adopted in major publically-funded regeneration projects like       the 2012 Olympics in East London, endorsed by the Mayor of London in the       Olympic Legacy Strategic Planning Guidance (OLSPG, 2012).
B.
The London Olympics: Burdett played an instrumental role in       creating the design brief for the Olympics and legacy masterplan as Chief       Adviser on Architecture and Urbanism to the Olympic Delivery Authority       (ODA) from 2006 to 2010 (Source C).
In this capacity he applied the       principles of the `compact and well-connected city model' to the wider       Olympic site in East London.
He further advised on the design of       individual venues, the Athletes' Village and public spaces.
The impact has       been the delivery of an integrated urban plan that connects the Olympic       Park to surrounding areas and existing communities, creating a dense and       diverse `piece of city' rather than a gated community, "making sure that       the buildings at the Olympic Park [met] high standard quality of design",       thereby influencing professional standards in architectural practice in       the UK (Source D).
This approach has been adopted by the London Legacy       Development Corporation which oversees development of the Olympic site for       the next decades, and is recognised by the London Plan (2011).
The positive impact of this methodology led to a series of key policy       appointments in the UK and abroad.
Burdett was commissioned to lead the       development of the city plan for the municipality of Genova (where he was       Chief Adviser to the Mayor, 2008-11, (Source E).
He carried out a       similar role as Scientific Coordinator for the city plan of Parma       (2008-2011) and was on the Steering Committee for the Milan Expo from 2008       to 2011.
In 2012 he became a member of the UK Airports Commission in       recognition of his expertise on global cities and their development       (Source F).
C. Cities and the Green Economy: Rode's research on cities and the       green economy has been adopted by the United Nations Environment Programme       in its influential Green Economy Report which is designed to motivate       policymakers at a global level to create the enabling conditions for       increased investments in a transition to a green economy (Source G).
A       survey by LSE Cities on the way 90 global cities are managing transition       to the green economy has stimulated policy debate within ICLEI (Local       Governments for Sustainability) while detailed studies on green policies       in EU and US cities are being adopted by municipal authorities.
Commenting       on a study by LSE Cities, the Mayor of Stockholm noted "The report from       the LSE will be a valuable tool in shaping the future Stockholm and in       planning for meeting our challenges."
(Source H).
D. Urban Age and Wider Reach: Through conferences, research and       outreach activities, the Urban Age (Burdett and Rode) has established a       distinctive research agenda and an international network of urban       policy-makers and scholars, demonstrating unique reach in the fields of       urban planning, sustainable development and governance.
4,600 experts have       taken part in 13 major conferences since 2005 (six conferences with 3,000       participants during 2008-13).
Over 40 academic and research institutions,       alongside city authorities of Rio de Janeiro, Johannesburg, Mexico City,       Sao Paulo, Hong Kong, Mumbai, Istanbul, London, New York and Chicago have       collaborated in research and data compilation, enabling improved public       understanding of urban issues.
Further dissemination has been achieved       through exhibitions (400,000 visitors), two major books (30,000 copies),       and a website which since 2010 has received over 1 million hits.
Collectively, the work of LSE Cities has "had an influence out of all       proportion to its size .... and the centre is internationally significant"       (Prof Nigel Thrift, Vice-Chancellor, University of Warwick (Source I).
Rahm Emanuel, the Mayor of Chicago, stated that his economic policy was       inspired by ideas generated at the Chicago Global Metro Summit in 2010.
"If         we did have a serious discussion, it could at least include debating the         record and lessons of a December, 2010 "Global Metro Summit" convened in         Chicago by the London School of Economics, Washington's Brookings         Institution and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank."
(Source J).
