     As well as being recognised and cited within academic literature this       research has also had a verifiable real world impact.
It has influenced       coach development at several levels ranging from being provided as       information/professional guidance to directly impacting on the design of       coach education courses such as those delivered by the Mountaineering       Council of Scotland.
The research carried out in the period since 2009 began to have a       measurable impact throughout 2011 when the findings/applied       recommendations were first made available outside of academic sources via       a series of invited lay articles published in the magazines Athletics       Weekly (1, readership of 14,000+), Climb Magazine (2, readership of       50,000+), and Cycle Coach (3, readership of 1000+), reaching a readership       of coaches, athletes and interested parties.
These articles stated the       case for a more individualised approach to coaching and provided practical       guidelines for implanting this approach and improving relationships       between athletes and coaches.
These articles attracted a volume of feedback (mostly via email) from the       readership, in the form of comments and observations.
Comments came from a       range of individuals including athletes and individual coaches, but also       from those involved at a higher level and in coach education.
An example       of this was the Director of the Burton Track and Field Academy (4), a UK       Athletics Coach Tutor, who is now incorporating the findings of this       research into his own coaching style and in the way he approaches the       education of other UK Athletics coaches.
This research has influenced the       Director to begin his own series of research investigating coach-athlete       communication, with consultation from the first author of this body of       research, and the Director has also written a related article for       Athletics Weekly in 2012.
The Director stated, "I've been using your work       at the academy... my article was published in AW two weeks ago and you       were cited in it...
I would be interested in taking this work to the next       level with you as part of a more formal joint bid for the Frank Horwill       scholarship administered by the BMC".
Dissemination through magazines and via coaches has raised awareness of       this research which in turn has led to more direct links with coach       educators.
The findings from this research have been embedded into a core       coach education text published in 2013 (5) as well as professional       practice recommendations that are being used as essential guidance reading       on the California State Mandated Coaching Certification delivered by       California State University in 2012/2013 (6).
The Cycle Coach (3) article was made available to Scottish Cycling (7)       who distributed an electronic copy of the Cycle Coach (3) article to their       sport development team (3 x development/education officers, 5 x regional       development officers) and high performance team (6 x talent/discipline       head coaches).
This led the first author of this body of research being       requested to present his findings, links to other research, and       practical/applied guidance to Scottish Cycling and Scottish Triathlon high       performance coaches as part of sportScotland's 2012 Coaching       Matters series of Workshops at the EICA in Edinburgh (7, attendance of       c.15).
The expertise demonstrated in the findings of this research, in       relation to coach-athlete relationships, has also led to Scottish Cycling       wanting to participate in a research project, investigating coaches' role       in preventing doping behaviours and their educational needs for improving       their ability to carry out this role (7).
Copies of lay articles and supplementary notes have also been requested       in 2012 by the Mountaineering Council of Scotland (8) for their coach       education resources.
This has attracted further feedback and interest from       two Scottish national coaches and also the winner of the British Youth       Climbing Series.
Dissemination of the findings/applied recommendations of       this research also directly led to the main researcher (Lorimer) being       requested to consult with the Mountaineering Council of Scotland (8, 9)       throughout 2011 and 2012 in the development of their new range of       `FUNdamental' coach education courses, including consultation with the       British and Irish mountaineering councils.
This then led to further       consultation in 2012 with the Scottish Interest Group of the Mountain       Training Association in the development of the content of their coaching       badges as part of the new Coaching Certification (9).
Lorimer has now been       appointed Sport Science Officer of the Mountaineering Council of Scotland       (8) and Chairs their Coach Development Group responsible for the       development of all coaching/instructor training materials, which will       continue to be influenced by his ongoing research.
