     High blood pressure (hypertension) is one of the most preventable causes       of premature morbidity       and mortality.
It is a major risk factor for strokes, myocardial       infarction, heart failure, chronic kidney       disease, cognitive decline and premature death.
At least one quarter of       all adults in the UK, and       more than half of those older than 60, have high blood pressure.
The       clinical management of       hypertension is one of the most common interventions in primary care,       accounting for       approximately &#163;1 billion in drug costs alone each year.
The measurement of blood pressure is one of the most frequent clinical       evaluations and the       method has changed little in over 100 years.
It has long been assumed that       the pressure       measured in the arm by conventional methods is representative of the true       pressure in central       circulation, so-called central aortic pressure.
The Unit's work has had a       major impact in this field in       three ways: (i) changing blood pressure treatment guidance; (ii)       stimulating growth in medical       devices for the non-invasive measurement of aortic pressure; and (iii)       developing central aortic       pressure as a biomarker to improve drug development.
(i) Changes to Blood Pressure Treatment Guidelines     The CAFE study in Circulation remains the most cited paper (see       3.1) in the field of non-invasive       aortic pressure measurement, with over 200 citations per year since       publication in 2006.
The       findings, that the beta-blocker atenolol was less effective than expected       at reducing aortic pressure       when compared to alternatives, and that aortic pressure may be a better       predictor of clinical       outcomes than conventional brachial pressure, underpinned major changes to       blood pressure       management guidelines and widespread change in clinical practice,       affecting millions of people in       the UK and beyond.
They influenced revisions to NICE guidelines for the       treatment of       hypertension, published in 2006 and revised in 2011, relegating       beta-blockers from their prior       position as a mainstay of routine treatment for high blood pressure to a       lesser role.
Williams was       Clinical Advisor to the NICE hypertension guideline in 20061       and Chair of the NICE Guideline       Development that updated the guidance in 2011.2     (ii) Stimulating major growth in medical devices for non-invasive           measurement of aortic pressure     Interest in the non-invasive measurement of aortic pressure has exploded       since the publication of       the CAFE study in 2006.
The term central aortic pressure has become part       of routine discussion at       specialist meetings and many new commercially available devices have       emerged, expanding from       a single device seven years ago to more than 50 today.
Williams' more practical and less expensive solution to the measurement       of central aortic pressure       was a sensor worn on the wrist to record the pulse wave.
Using       computerised mathematical       modelling (n-Point Moving Average) of the pulse wave, doctors are able to       accurately estimate       blood pressure close to the heart.
Patients who tested the device found it       easier and more       comfortable, as it can be worn like a watch.
The new measurement devices,       BPro&#174;, CASPro&#174; and       CASPal&#174;, are designed for clinical and home use.
In the US, the       FDA has recognised the       Leicester-developed n-Point Moving Average as a clinically valid method       for the measurement of       aortic pressure and all three medical devices have attained the FDA 510(k)       listing and CE (MDD)       Mark.3 [text removed for publication] This indicates that       assessment of aortic pressure is being       increasingly incorporated within clinical practice.
The impact of the work has been widely recognised beyond scientists and       clinicians.5, 6 In 2011,       Health Secretary Andrew Lansley said: "This is a great example of how       research breakthroughs       and innovation can make a real difference to patients' lives."
7       The device also won the 2011 Times       Higher Education Award for Innovation and Technology.
Ann Mroz, editor of       the THES, was quoted       as saying that the University of Leicester project was "among the research       achievements that       captured the imagination of our judges.
"8     (iii) Developing aortic pressure as a biomarker to differentiate           the actions of drugs to treat           hypertension     A major impact of the research relates to its benefits in terms of       improving drugs to treat blood       pressure.
As indicated, major pharmaceutical companies such as Novartis       have recognised the       importance of aortic pressure as a biomarker of drug efficacy and have       incorporated the       technology and concepts developed by the Unit into the evaluation of new       drug therapies in       international multicentre trials such as ALTITUDE (ClinicalTrials.gov       NCT00549757) and       ATMOSPHERE (NCT00853658).
Indeed, the research opens up the opportunity to       identify drugs       that specifically target central aortic pressure.
