     As well as being recognised and highly cited within academic literature,       the research into high       intensity exercise is also having a verifiable impact on perceptions of       exercise.
The work has       promoted debate into what is the required intensity of exercise to promote       good health and to       improve fitness within the general population and within the fitness       industry.
The research carried       out since 2010 began to have a measurable impact throughout 2011 and into       2012, building on the       earlier impact of the high intensity training research carried out by       Babraj at Heriot Watt University       and published in 2009.
Building on this research further articles have       been published on the role of       high intensity training in promoting cardio-metabolic health and       improvements in endurance       capacity and lactate metabolism.
The research has been widely disseminated and has led to one meeting and       two laboratory visits       from the Scottish Minister for Sport and Commonwealth Games, as well as       two meetings with Dr       Andrew Murray who is leading the Scottish Government review of exercise       and health.
The       findings have also been covered nationally in the UK on the BBC Horizon       programme (broadcast       28th February 2012) watched by an estimated 2.9 million people       (http://www.barb.co.uk/report/weekly-top-programmes-overview?)
(1).
Building directly on the       Horizon programme, Dr Babraj was approached by Dundee University Press to       write a lay book on       the topic of high intensity training which was published in October 2012       (2).
The book sold 1000       copies in the first 2 months of publication.
This work has also been       widely disseminated within the       local population with three Caf&#233; Science presentations being given by       staff between 2011 and       2012 (total attendance approximately 140 people, 3).Meetings with the       Royal Bank of Scotland       (total attendance approximately 100 people), Gloucester Rugby Club       (individual meetings with       Head of Sports Medicine, Head of Strength and Conditioning plus other       coaches) have also       provided further opportunities for dissemination of this work.
The       research on high intensity training       has also been further disseminated to a wider audience via general       magazine articles as well as       articles in specialist sports magazines; e.g.
the research has featured in       Healthy magazine (4,       readership 130,000), Marie Claire (5, readership 250,785), Men's Health       (6, readership 218,368)       and Women's Fitness (7, readership 36,022).
This type of dissemination is       making more people       aware and promoting debate amongst general public and exercise       practitioners that exercise       sessions do not need to last hours but can be done in 10 minutes with       remarkable benefits for       fitness and health.
The dissemination carried out to date has had a direct impact locally and       wider afield.
Locally       people who have attended a Caf&#233; Science presentation have been keen to       take part in the training       and have contacted staff asking for a trial.
One coach states "We have       been instituting some HIT       so far this season and the guys really enjoy it.
We've noticed good       results with players displaying       better performance so far."(8).
Likewise a former professional rugby       player, male fitness model and       personal trainer tried out high intensity training after reading the book       and states "I heard about the       research through reading the book.
The HIT test was initially very tough       but was surprised at the       improvements I made every session and after 5 session a total of 20mins of       exercise I was       astonished at the results to my overall health and fitness and it was a       real rush as well as being       slightly addictive.
Since doing the sessions I have used the basic theory       with a couple of my clients       who also could not believe the gains they made in their overall fitness       and well being" (9).
Following the meeting at Gloucester Rugby Club they have now incorporated       high intensity training       into their rehabilitation programme for players returning from injury.
Their strength and conditioning       coach staid "Following the meeting with Dr Babraj we have used both high       intensity interval       sessions... and found the 10x6secs was the best session for us... and I am       keen to use them       further with the guys."
(10).
