     Sunkin's research has produced the most comprehensive available       collection of data on Judicial Review.
As the primary source of empirical       research on JR in England and Wales, Sunkin's work has been a significant       source of information for: civil society groups contributing to policy       debate on JR policy in England and Wales; court decisions in JR cases; and       policy-makers in the UK, including the Ministry of Justice (MofJ), the Law       Commission, and the Scottish Civil Courts Review.
Sunkin has also worked       in partnership with the Public Law Project (PLP) to help their       campaigning, including co-authoring their responses to a number of MofJ       consultations on JR reform.
The result has been a substantial contribution       to debate on JR in a number of contexts, informing the recommendations       made by major policy-makers and in some instances influencing changes made       in policy and legislation.
The impacts of the research come under 3       categories: impacts on courts, policy, and civil society.
Impact in courts     Sunkin's research has had impact on court decisions, both through       citation of his publications and through recommendations made by Lord       Justice Jackson, following his review of the costs of civil litigation.
Lord Justice Jackson's 2009 report on Costs in Civil Litigation       [corroborating source 1] cites research by Sunkin to support these       recommendations (para 3.21, p.309 and para 5.2, p.352).
Similar arguments       were accepted in the seminal decision of the Court of Appeal in Bahta         v SSHD [2011] EWCA Civ 895.
One of the barristers on the case       comments that `the [research] proved very useful...[it] cast light in an       important area where there is a serious shortage of information to inform       policy, even in relation to cost orders' [corroborating source 2].
Impact on policy     Sunkin's publications on the impact of JR have informed the work of the       UK Law Commission, which cited his work in 2010 to support its       recommendations for improving monetary remedies against public bodies.
Of       Sunkin's work the Law Commission's report comments: `We are glad that such       work has been undertaken, especially as it backs up our argument that       there can be positive benefits to litigation' [corroborating source 3].
His research has also informed policy changes.
Sunkin's work on the       concentration of JR in London and the South East was recognised by the Law       Commission in 1994 [corroborating source 4, paras 2.20 and 2.28] and by       the Review of the Crown Office List, Lord Chancellor's Department       in 2000 [corroborating source 5, Chapter 6 para 21].
Reform ultimately       occurred in April 2009, when regional JR centres were established in       Birmingham, Cardiff, Manchester and Leeds.
A former High Court judge and       Chairman of the Law Commission writes that `Sunkin's work played a       significant role in the identification of the problems that flowed from       lack of easy regional access to judicial review ... and therefore played a       seminal role in contributing to the reform agenda that eventually led to       the regionalization of the Administrative Court' [source 6].
Similarly, Sunkin's research has informed recommendations that were       incorporated into a Draft Bill for the Scottish Parliament.
His research       was cited to support the recommendations made by Lord Gill's Review of the       Scottish Civil Courts [source 7, Vol 2, Chapter 12. see esp.
paras 34,       40-50].
The Review states: `... Research [by Sunkin]...suggests that [in       England &amp; Wales the pre-trial protocol and permission stage] ...work       well in filtering out unmeritorious applications and in prompting early       concessions where claims are well founded' (para 50); `We recommend the       introduction of a requirement to obtain leave to proceed with an       application for judicial review in Scotland, following the model ...[in]       ... England and Wales...' (para 51).
Following this recommendation, the       Scottish Government has included a leave requirement in the Draft Courts       Reform (Scotland) Bill [the process from the Gill review, influenced by       Sunkin, to the Draft Bill, has been tracked by the UK Constitution Law       Group blog; see source 8].
Consultation on the Bill is on-going at the       time of writing (August 2013), with the potential for further impact of       Sunkin's work in this area if the Bill is passed into law.
Impact on civil society and the Ministry of Justice     In England, Sunkin's research has been used by a wide range of       organisations, including his collaborative partner institution the Public       Law Project (PLP), to submit responses to MofJ consultations regarding       reforms to JR and to legal aid.
His joint submissions with the Public Law       Project have been partly responsible for influencing the MofJ's responses       to those consultations.
In 2009, the Legal Services Commission (LSC) and       the MofJ issued a consultation on their proposal to withdraw solicitors'       delegated power to self-grant emergency representation in JR cases.
Sunkin       and the PLP used his research to question the statistical data used to       justify the MofJ's proposal.
Sunkin's research was distributed to       practitioners and expert groups and was widely utilised by them in their       responses to the consultation (see for example the Advice Service       Alliance's response to the consultation, corroborating source 9, paras       3.33-3.34).
Ultimately the MofJ decided not to proceed with this reform.
This decision was partly based on the fact that respondents to the MofJ       consultation argued that the latter's permission rate statistics were       unsound [source 10, see especially para 15].
In December 2012 the MofJ issued another consultation on reforms to JR in       England and Wales.
22 of the responses to the consultation cited Sunkin's       research, including responses from The Equality and Human Rights       Commission, the Advice Workers Alliance, the Bingham Centre for the Rule       of Law, NGO Reprieve, Garden Court (barristers) the Constitutional and       Administrative Law Bar Association, and the Education Law Association.
Sunkin's work on JR was the only research referred to by the Government in       its response to the consultation.
The Government note that: `Those       [respondents] who disagreed [with certain of the proposals] ... pointed to       the research undertaken by Bondy and Sunkin, which suggested that the       Government was over-estimating the failure rate for applications for       permission' [source 11, p18 para 69].
Though it is impossible to determine the primary influence on the       Government's decision not to pursue certain proposed reforms to JR, the       fact that the research was widely cited in the consultations indicates       that it was a significant contributing factor to the Government's       decisions on this issue.
