     The impact of our research can be seen from two inter-related       perspectives:     1.
Influence on Government Policy     With positive interim findings (on level of service activity and staff       attitudes) and prior to the completion of the study, Lord Howe       (Parliamentary Under Secretary of State), wished to see if the same       results could be achieved in different areas of England that had different       demography and geography.
In response, the national pharmacy bodies (Company Chemist Association,       National Pharmacy Association, Pharmaceutical Services Negotiating       Committee, Royal Pharmaceutical Society) working together with the       Department of Health and Centre of Pharmacy Postgraduate Education       collaborated to form a Pathfinder Support Group (PSG) to roll-out the       concept nationally.
This was a direct result of the findings from our       research group.
Expressions of interest to become a pathfinder site were issued in 2011.
The intention was to recruit 20 sites involving 100 pharmacies to       determine if the Portsmouth experience was scalable.
The research team       provided expert advice and opinion in to the output measures to be       collected.
The collation of data from pathfinder sites was overseen by the       professional body for pharmacists, The Royal Pharmaceutical Society.
Their       report on findings from pathfinder sites broadly replicated our findings       from Portsmouth PCT and demonstrably shows `proof of concept'.
The HLP concept has now gone beyond the scope of the initial pathfinder       programme and is now becoming established as an England-wide model for       delivery of public health through pharmacies.
This can be exemplified as there were (as of 31/3/2013) 458 accredited       HLPs in 28 regions across England, which has further risen to 721 HLPs by       October 2013.
This number is set to continue to increase as more regions       have expressed a desire to introduce the HLP concept.
The likelihood of sustainability (given the final findings from our       research) and the growing number of areas delivering the HLP concept has       led to the development of a national training programme offered through       The Centre for Postgraduate Pharmacy Education &#8212; a government funded       training provider for pharmacists (http://www.cppe.ac.uk/learning/Details.asp?TemplateID=HLP-E-00&amp;Format=E&amp;ID=29&amp;         EventID=42721) and The National Pharmacy Association hosting       dedicated webpages for HLPs (http://www.npa.co.uk/Business-Management/Service-Development-Opportunities/Healthy-Living-Pharmacy/).
2.
Impact on the pharmacy profession and health and wellbeing of the         public     Our findings (which have subsequently been replicated elsewhere in       England) have shown that:     a. Uptake of services through HLPs is higher compared to non-HLPs.
b.
Patient outcomes are better (or the same in the case of emergency       hormonal contraception) for services delivered through HLPs.
c. Pharmacy teams working in HLPs feel more empowered motivated and       better able to deliver public health interventions.
As detailed in reference 3, section 3 and reference 5 in section 5.
The expansion of the HLP concept from 17 pharmacies in Portsmouth in 2009       to 721 across England by 2013 shows that the concept is now a reality.
The       scalable health benefits to the population at large will mean that HLP       pharmacies are contributing to the health of the nation in a more       meaningful and demonstrable way than before their introduction.
