     In 2007 there were an estimated 54.7 million pregnancies in areas with       stable P. falciparum malaria, and a further 70.5 million in areas       with low malaria transmission.
With the increasing use of artemisinin       combination treatments for malaria, the survival rates of those in       affected areas have increased.
As pregnant women are often excluded from       drug treatment trials, however, (particularly trials of newer       antimalarials) they have continued to receive ineffective treatment7.
The prospective research conduced by the SMRU has had a significant       impact on the health outcomes of pregnant women and infants in malaria       affected areas, with findings leading to major changes in world health       policy relating to malaria in pregnancy.
Policy/Guidelines:     Results from SMRU's epidemiological and pharmacokinetic studies, which       provided evidence for the first time of the deleterious effect of malaria       on early fetal growth, have led to a significant paradigm shift in       clinical and world health policy.
Although it was once considered       acceptable for pregnant women with asymptomatic malaria to remain       untreated, SMRU's research has shown that malaria must be prevented and       treated as early as possible during pregnancy.
This has led to changes in       the World Health Organization malaria treatment guidelines in pregnancy8,       and the Green Top Guidelines on Prevention9 and Treatment10       of malaria in pregnancy.
SMRU recently provided much of the evidence for the Annual World Health       Organization Meeting on treatment and prevention of malaria in pregnancy       in the Asia Pacific Region in 201111.
Now collaborating with       other investigators to promote treatment and pharmacokinetic studies in       pregnancy in Africa12 and Papua New Guinea13, SMRU       is also a partner in the Malaria in Pregnancy Consortium.
The research       team has produced 96 articles, book chapters and abstracts on the topic of       maternal malaria.
Health:     Early detection and treatment of malaria in pregnancy has had clear       benefits to Karen woman and the local community on the border of Thailand.
This has been highlighted by the large reduction in malaria related       maternal mortality (from 1,000 deaths per 100,000 in 1985 to zero in 2005)14,       an increased birth weight in local infants (from 2.7 to 3 kg), and the low       prevalence of placental malaria related lesions.
Due to SMRU's research,       early detection and treatment is increasingly being recognised as an       effective strategy to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by malaria       in areas of low transmission.
On the Thai-Myanmar border the beneficiary       population extends to the refugee and the migrant workers communities &#8212;       circa 300,000 people.
The deleterious effects of malaria (P.falciparum       but also P.vivax) are also increasingly being recognised.
The change in pregnancy surveillance has also had a dramatic impact on       mortality rates related to non-malaria febrile illness, including adverse       fetal outcomes in those with rickettsial infection.
This has also       significantly improved health outcomes for mothers and infants in the       border area15.
