     Our research as cited in [3.1-3] led to the creation and       application of an automated system, the CompacT SelecT, to the culture of       large numbers of human stem cells.
This is now being put to use       internationally to develop therapeutics [5.1].
As of July 2013, 47       of these systems worth &#163;20.1M have been sold in laboratory and GMP       configurations and are being used to benefit current and future patients       by both enabling translational research and manufacturing therapeutics.
TAP are in discussions with potential purchasers of 50 further systems       with half of these to be applied to either cell therapy development or       stem cell research.
As a result of the orders, TAP Biosystems and their       build partners have created 15-20 new jobs [5.2].
The Loughborough research uniquely allows the transfer of manual stem       cell culture processes to automation and pioneered process design       techniques for their subsequent optimisation.
The research was       collaborative with the science base, manufacturing industry and its       suppliers and end users and designed with embedded direct dissemination       routes.
After some initial work, human (h) dermal fibroblasts were cultured on       the automated CompacT SelecT in collaboration with Intercytex (2006-2009),       human smooth muscle cells with Cook Myocyte (US) (2008-2009), hMSC with       Oreffo of Southampton (2006, [3.1]), foetally derived neural       progenitors with Reneuron (2008-2009, [3.3]), hESC (differentiated       to cardiomyocytes) with Denning and Young of Nottingham (2008-2009, [3.2])       and latterly human induced pluripotent stem cells (hIPSC) with Vallier and       Pederson of Cambridge (2011-2013) and GMP grade hESC cells with WiCell       (US) (2012-2013).
Consequently the work has significantly contributed to       the development of cell-based therapeutics for blood replacement, stroke       and degenerative diseases of the brain, leukaemia and other cancers and       tissue repair including for the bladder [5.1].
The product launched by TAP Biosystems has a global reach: 40% of the       systems sold are in Europe and 60% in the US with concentrations on the       East (MA) and West Coasts (CA) [5.2], and new markets are emerging       in Russia, China and Korea.
Loughborough further enabled the exploitation       process by demonstrating the capability of the machine to culture complex       cell types of significance to customers and to operate to GMP.
Understanding how to manufacture stem cell based products is one of the       key critical translational steps required to allow such therapies to reach       the market and for successful business investment and sector growth.
The       new manufacturing science researched at Loughborough has allowed the       reduction to practice of complex research laboratory based biological       processes.
This capability has significantly influenced the development of the new       Cell Therapies Catapult.
The Group was joint leader of one of the three       bids, reaching the final round of the subsequently withdrawn academic       competition for leadership of the Catapult during 2011.
The Catapult was       then created in a top-down process by the Technology Strategy Board with a       CEO being appointed in April of 2012 and a Chairman in September 2012.
An       MOU establishing a strategic collaboration between the Cell Therapies       Catapult and the manufacturing, automation and process capability at       Loughborough University was signed on 21st January 2013 [5.6].
Further, Williams chaired the meeting (09/07/08) that led to the founding       of the Regenerative Medicine RGM/1 committee of BSI.
Whilst creating the       first two Publically Available Specifications, PAS, (PAS 83 and 84) was       straightforward being solely descriptive of the status quo, a third, PAS       93 on Cell Characterisation [5.7], was more problematic, requiring       a Loughborough intervention [5.8] to meet the needs of the       innovative businesses.
It is important to recognise that this third PAS [5.7]       is the first of its kind in the world and is likely to lead to an ISO       standard.
Our track record was also key to securing essential follow-on research       funding, in particular the leadership of major national consortia       including The EPSRC Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Regenerative       Medicine (2010) [G3.7], its uplift to act as a national centre       (2012) [G3.11], the translational research fellowship programme,       the EPSRC ETERM Cross Disciplinary Landscape Award (2010) [G3.6],       the EPSRC Early Career Fellowship of Dr Robert Thomas (2013) and other       subsequent grants [G3.2-5,G3.8-10,G3.13-15].
The work has also generated a large number of skilled individuals with       contributing research assistants and PhD graduates from the group being       employed as lecturers and senior lecturers (Thomas and Liu, Loughborough)       in academia and as technical and commercial professionals in international       translational and technology transfer organisations (Rayment, Griffith       University, Australia; Ginty, Cell Therapy Catapult) and businesses (Kee,       Organogenesis, US; Singh, Stem Cell Technologies, Canada) with a       consequent impact on technology translation.
