     The primary impact of Gilbert's research has been to inform and influence       court judgements       throughout the world.
This has been achieved through the UN High       Commissioner for Refugees'       Guidelines on Exclusion, which has provided guidance for a huge number of       court cases since       2003.
These guidelines were heavily influenced by the research described       in section two.
Gilbert's       research has also been cited directly in court judgements, and has       underpinned professional       training that he has organised for the UN and the European Council.
The UNHCR 2003 Guidelines on Exclusion     In February 1998 Gilbert presented a paper at a closed symposium for the       UK Government's       Department for International Development (DfID), attended by       representatives of UNHCR and       other international agencies.
Drawing on the underpinning research,       Gilbert's presentation       comprised a digest of the principle of Exclusion in article 1F of the 1951       Convention Relating to the       Status of Refugees [corroborating source 1].
His presentation led the DfID       to invite him to write a       Global Consultation paper, commissioned to clarify those issues in       international law that he had       identified in his research on exclusion.
That Global Consultation paper       draws on Gilbert's       academic research into the regime interaction between different branches       of international refugee       law, and clarifies the range of issues raised by the overlaps between       Article 1F of the 1951       Convention, international treaties, and international human rights law.
Gilbert's Consultation paper was discussed in UNHCR in 2000 and at the       Lisbon Roundtable in       2001 in the presence of UNHCR officials, other international       organisations, government ministers,       lawyers and academics.
Most importantly Gilbert's research, in the form of       the Global Consultation       paper, contributed significantly to the UNHCR 2003 Guidelines on Exclusion       [source 2]: apart from       two paragraphs (5 and 6), every issue addressed in the Guidelines is       raised in Gilbert's research.
The influence of Gilbert's research on the 2003 Guidelines has been       attested by the then Chief of       the Protection Policy and Legal Advice Section of the Division of       International Protection of       UNHCR (now the Director of International Protection, UNHCR):     I oversaw the production of the 2001 Global Consultations for the 50th       Anniversary of the       1951 Convention, which included Professor Gilbert's paper on       Exclusion...This paper directly       influenced UNHCR's 2003 Guidelines on Exclusion and the       accompanying Background Note     Director of International Protection, UNHCR     The Guidelines have been cited innumerable times in courts worldwide and       form the basis for       training on the topic for all UNHCR staff.
High profile court citations of       the Guidelines include:             Hernandez Febles v Canada (Citizenship and Immigration), 2012         FCA 324        Al-Sirri v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2012]         UKSC 54 (21 November         2012)        ABC (A Minor) (Afghanistan), R (On the Application Of) v Secretary           of State for the Home           Department [2011] EWHC 2937 (06 December 2011)          Over the last ten years the complex of international legislation       surrounding Exclusion has grown       much more complicated, and the UNHCR considers the Guidelines in need of       revisions.
To this       end, in January 2013 Gilbert hosted a two day closed-door roundtable       attended by experts in       international refugee law including senior UNHCR staff, judges, academics,       and refugee law       practitioners.
Gilbert co-organised and contributed to discussions in the       symposium, on which the       UNHCR will base their revisions.
Worldwide Training for Legal Professionals     In addition to his significant contribution to the primary international       legal document on exclusion       from refugee status, Gilbert was the founding Director of UNHCR's annual       Thematic Refugee       Training Programme at the International Institute for Humanitarian Law,       Sanremo, Italy.
The       programme included the findings of his research on Exclusion and trained       judges, lawyers and       UNHCR staff from all over the world.
Gilbert ran the programme from       2005-07 and was involved in       the planning and preparation in 2008.
As a result of that training, the       European Council of       Refugees and Exiles used Gilbert as a trainer on Exclusion for judges and       lawyers from all over       Europe at its Athens workshop in February 2008 [see corroborating source       3].
In October 2009, Gilbert presented a paper on the topic at the European       Chapter of the       International Association of Refugee Law Judges in Berlin; he was one of       only two academics at       the conference and the only one to present a paper.
He was also invited in       2012 to address       refugee law judges and lawyers from Commonwealth states at a workshop       sponsored by the       Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Gilbert's contributions to training       programmes, conferences,       and workshops have often led to the use of his research in court cases.
In       May 2008, Gilbert was       invited to speak on Exclusion at the Center for Refugee Studies in Toronto       at a closed conference       for academics and judges on `Critical Issues Facing Refugee Law'.
The       judges attending the       conference were from Canada, Australia and Germany.
In one instance       Gilbert's contribution to the       conference impacted on a decision made by a judge in attendance.
The       German judge in       attendance at the conference, Dr Harald D&#246;rig, sits on the German Federal       Administrative Court       (GFAC), and cited Gilbert in the Court's referral to the European Court of       Justice.
Specifically,       Gilbert's research was cited in clarifying that the purpose of exclusion       clauses are to ensure that       persons not `deserving' of refugee protection cannot escape criminal       prosecution for past acts.
This supported the court's decision that exclusion from refugee status can       be applied in cases in       which the relevant party no longer poses a criminal threat [source 4].
The Impact of Research on Court Decisions     As a consequence of his chapter on Current Issues in Exclusion (2003), in       January 2009 Gilbert       was asked to write an expert opinion for Jackman &amp; Associates,       Toronto, on behalf of Mr Song       Dae Ri, a North Korean appealing against a denial of refugee status on       grounds of complicity in       crimes against humanity.
Partly as a result of that opinion, the Canadian       Government conceded       without going to court that he should not have been excluded and granted       him refugee status.
Gilbert's research here influenced a significant decision by Canada, as       attested by one of the       Barristers working on the case: `This appears to be somewhat       unprecedented, as my colleagues       tell me that CIC [Citizenship and Immigration Canada] almost always just       adopts the exclusion       finding of the IRB [Immigration and Refugee Board]' [source 5].
Gilbert's research has also been accepted in several other court       judgments [source 6].
Within this       REF period, the most pertinent include: Plaintiff M47/2012 v Director         General of Security [2012]       HCA 46 (5 October 2012); and AH (Algeria) v Secretary of State for the         Home Department [2012]       EWCA Civ 395 (2 April 2012).
