     Schulze's research on the history of Bergen-Belsen has educated the       general public &#8212; both in Germany and in the UK &#8212; in the unique details of       the history of Bergen-Belsen and the British role in liberating the camp.
The effect has been to inform the public of oft-neglected complexities of       the Holocaust, including the multiple purposes for which camps such as       Bergen-Belsen were used, and the groups other than Jews that were held in       such camps.
These details of the history of the Holocaust have been       mediated primarily through the permanent exhibition at Bergen-Belsen, and       also through Schulze's numerous public speaking engagements and his school       outreach activity.
Bergen-Belsen Gedenkst&#228;tte     The first impact of Schulze's research has been to improve the       Gedenkst&#228;tte at Bergen-Belsen.
He has been informing the work of the       Gedenkst&#228;tte since his appointment to their management team in 2003.
His       most notable contribution has been to use his research to inform the       Gedenkst&#228;tte's new permanent exhibition, opened in 2007.
The new       exhibition filled the gaps and corrected the errors of the Gedenkst&#228;tte       prior to 2007, as attested by a Bergen-Belsen survivor, now Emeritus       Professor of German at University of Sussex, with whom Schulze has worked:       `The Memorial in Bergen-Belsen, inaugurated in 1952, significantly       distorted the truth about what had been one of the worst camps.
The new       permanent exhibition was opened in 2007 in order to remedy this       situation...For the first time the complete history of Bergen-Belsen is       presented in a reliable and effective manner, giving what is left of the       camp its due as an important national and international commemorative       site' [corroborating source 1].
The redesign of the Gedenkst&#228;tte has brought benefits both to those who       visit the site and the institution responsible for the running of the       Gedenkst&#228;tte.
The improved design of the Gedenkst&#228;tte influenced the       decision by the Berlin Bundesregierung to financially support the work at       Bergen-Belsen in 2008 with a donation of &#8364;1milli on.
This funding allowed       the Gedenkst&#228;tte to increase the number of permanent employees to 20.
The       improved quality of the Gedenkst&#228;tte was also recognised with a &#8364;20,000       Museum Prize in 2009 awarded by German bank Nieders&#228;sische       Sparkassenstiftung.
Public beneficiaries of the redesign include the 1500       former prisoners and 100 British former military personnel with whom the       Gedenkst&#228;tte made contact during the process of the redesign, some of whom       have visited the site.
The redesign has also brought a significantly       greater number of general public visitors to the site.
The site is now       visited by more than 1000 guided groups per year, an increase of       approximately 40% on the number prior to the redesign.
All benefits from       the redesign have been confirmed by the CEO of the Foundation for Lower       Saxony Memorial Sites [corroborating source 2].
UK Impact: Schools and general public     Schulze's research on the history of Holocaust has also been used to       educate the general public in the UK and school pupils in the East of       England.
In January 2008, he organised a public symposium `Representing       the Unrepresentable: Putting the Holocaust into Public Museums' as part of       the Holocaust Memorial Week at the University of Essex.
The symposium was       a knowledge exchange collaboration with the Director of the Holocaust       Exhibition at the Imperial War Museum (IWM), and informed an audience of       110 of how the new Bergen-Belsen exhibition differed from existing       exhibitions of its kind, comparing it specifically with the Holocaust       exhibition at the IWM.
The symposium helped Schulze to establish a working       partnership with the IWM in which, according to the Museum's Director of       the Holocaust Exhibition, `he acted as a very well informed intercessor       between the IWM and the Belsen Information centre' [corroborating source       3].
Schulze has also contributed his research to the annual University of       Essex Holocaust Memorial week since 2008.
He has done this through       co-ordinating the programme, contributing his own research to the       programme in public talks and panel discussions, and by inviting       Bergen-Belsen survivors of whom he has learnt and with whom he has       developed contact through his research.
Each year Holocaust Memorial Week       has included school visits in which pupils have learnt from Schulze's work       on Bergen-Belsen and in particular on the `other victims' of the       Holocaust, such as Roma and homosexual prisoners of the camp.
He has added       to this school outreach activity by giving a number of talks at schools       through Essex and Suffolk.
He has run conferences for Key Stage 2 and Key       Stage 3 pupils at the University of Essex, and has worked with University       Campus Suffolk to hold workshops for A-Level students, teaching more than       170 pupils.
On many of these talks he was accompanied by Dora Love, who       educated school pupils about her work caring for child survivors of       Bergen-Belsen.
After her death in October 2011, Schulze established the       Dora Love prize for schools in Essex and Suffolk.
This annual prize will       be awarded to the best Holocaust awareness project by an individual or       group of pupils in primary, secondary, or sixth-form schools.
The prize       ensures a lasting legacy for Dora Love and Schulze's collaboration with       her, and a permanent impact in schools of his research into the stories of       Bergen-Belsen.
Through this activity Schulze's research has had impacts both on pupils       and on their teachers.
His contribution to local schools' teaching of       Holocaust history has been praised highly by the teachers with whom he has       worked:     Rainer has made an invaluable contribution to the development of schools'       history in Suffolk and Essex during the last two years.
He has worked with       8 schools in Suffolk and a number of schools in Essex to promote students'       knowledge and understanding of the Holocaust and influence the way that       the Holocaust is taught in the school curriculum.
Deputy Head teacher at Northgate High School, Ipswich, Suffolk, Fellow         of the Schools History Project
