     Over the last five years Rowlands has engaged members of the public in       the UK and in Germany       to challenge received wisdom about the history of witchcraft.
Over this       time her public engagement       activities have developed into a strategic dissemination programme       entitled `What is a Witch?'.
`What is a Witch?'
is both a public engagement and schools outreach       programme which adapts       Rowlands' research insights into the history of witchcraft and witch-hunts       for popular consumption,       designed to challenge commonplace stereotypes of witches.
There have been       two primary effects       of the `What is a Witch?'
programme: informing the teaching of history in       UK primary and       secondary education and changing public understanding of witches.
Initial public engagement     Within the REF impact period Rowlands has given over 20 public lectures       and radio appearances.
Many of these appearances have been underpinned by her research on the       history of witchcraft,       and have been undertaken in order to correct common misconceptions, both       in Germany and the       UK, of the history of witches and witch-hunts.
These public events       include: two appearances on       BBC Radio 4's In Our Time [downloaded since September 2011 at an       estimated rate of 2000 per       month; see corroborating source 1] and an appearance on Radio 4's Making         Histories in August       2011; public lectures and papers on local history in Germany, including       three presentations for the       annual public conference Arbeitskreis f&#252;r interdisziplin&#228;re         Hexenforschung and a public lecture for       the Rothenburg Local History Society lecture series [see corroborating       source 2]; and public       lectures and talks on regional history in East Anglia, including a 2010       public lecture for the Centre       for East Anglian Studies Public Lecture Series, a public lecture for the       Essex Branch of the       Historical Association in May 2011, a talk for the Sacred Hart Moot,       Romford, Essex (a Wicca and       modern-day witchcraft group; July 2012), and a public lecture for       Treadwell's Esoteric Bookshop,       London.
Feedback was collected extensively for the East of England events in       particular.
The Chair of the       Essex Branch of the Historical Association confirmed of their event that       `those present derived a       new understanding of the previously enigmatic East Anglian witch-hunts'       [corroborating source 3].
25 members of the Sacred Hart Moot attended Rowlands' lecture, at which       100% of questionnaire       respondents confirmed they learned something new about witchcraft       [corroborating sources 4 and       5].
Finally, feedback from the 25 audience members at Treadwell's Bookshop       confirmed that       questionnaire respondents were previously unaware that children were       accused of witchcraft, and       that the lecture had challenged the misconception that victims of       witch-hunts were predominately       old and poor women [source 6].
`What is a `Witch'?'
These public lectures and talks led Rowlands to develop a strategic       programme to make her       research accessible to the public.
`What is a `Witch'?'
is an on-going       public programme that       combines public lectures and school outreach to achieve two impacts:       educating the general public       about the history of witchcraft; and supporting and influencing teaching       in UK primary and       secondary schools, with particular focus on history education and teaching       the virtue of tolerance.
The first strand of What is a `Witch'?
is Rowlands' schools outreach       programme.
In 2013 Rowlands       piloted a What is a `Witch'?
history of witchcraft workshop designed to       aid the work of both primary       and secondary school teachers.
She piloted her workshop at both a primary       (Millfields School,       Wivenhoe) and a secondary school (Colne School, Brightlingsea).
Her pilot       with the latter       consisted of a one-day workshop for year 8 pupils, aided by a group of       history students from the       University of Essex.
The more extensive pilot at Millfields Primary was       held for year 5 and year 6       pupils and contributed to their curriculum theme of `Heroes and Villains'       [source 7].
Rowlands used       her work on local witch history, specifically her research into East       Anglian witch-finders, to create a       programme that asks the students to take a more considered approach to the       judgement that local       17th century witch-finders were `villains'.
The programme's       activities included presentations from       Rowlands, follow-up classroom work for the pupils, and a final event held       at the University of       Essex's Lakeside Theatre.
The success of the pilots led Rowlands to develop a teaching resource       pack for Key Stage 2 and       Key Stage 3 teachers.
The pack includes four lesson plans supplemented       with slide presentations       and activity sheets for pupils, and can be used in classrooms without the       need to have Rowlands       running the workshop herself.
In order to disseminate the resources to       teachers nationwide she       uploaded the pack on 18 July 2013 to the teaching resources section of the       Times Education       Supplement website.
Though this is intended for uptake by teachers beyond       the end of the REF       impact period, by July 31 2013 the resources had already been viewed over       20 times [source 8].
The impact of the What is a `Witch'?
programme on local school curricula       has been echoed at a       national level, with Rowlands' work used in an exam by OCR.
OCR has used       an extract from her       book Witchcraft Narratives in Germany: Rothenburg, 1561-1652       (2003).
This extract focuses in       particular on the restraint and caution with which witch-trials were       handled in Rothenburg.
The       extract was used in the exam for A2 GCE History B, Historical       Controversies &#8212; Non-British History       (unit code F986/01) November &#8212; December 2012.
OCR have also used this       material as part of       their training courses for training teachers in their exam specifications       [sources 9 and 10].
The second strand of the What is a `Witch'?
programme has built on       Rowlands' public engagement       experience with a new series of public lectures and family workshops.
Rowlands has held family       days at the University of Essex art gallery `Art Exchange' and public       talks in Thorpe-le-Soken and       Colchester.
The latter comprised three public lectures from May-July 2013       at local cultural centre,       firstsite.
Feedback for this second string of What is a `Witch'?
has been       overwhelmingly positive       and has shown that audiences have changed their misconceptions of the       history of witchcraft as a       result of her lectures.
Feedback questionnaires from firstsite showed that       the audience rated the       lecture content an average of 4.8 of 5 [source 11], with one audience       member writing to the       University's Vice-Chancellor to note the lectures were `a marvellous       example of good `Town Gown'       relations' [source 12].
