     This research has had an impact on the inspection of prisons, police,       probation, prosecution and courts.
It has influenced the strategic       thinking of ministers, senior civil servants, and Chief Inspectors, and       has informed the way these strategies have been transformed into       inspection policy and practice, for example by developing a risk-based       approach, encouraging unannounced inspections, inspecting the use of the       person escort record, encouraging dialogue between inspectorates and       government departments regarding research activity, and refining       inspection of corruption in prisons.
These changes have been achieved       through the following mechanisms:     Non-Executive Director, Management Board       of HM Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate: www.hmcpsi.gov.uk     Professor Shute was appointed as the first non-executive director of this       Management Board by the then Attorney General (Rt Hon.
Baroness       Patricia Scotland QC) and the then HM Chief Inspector (Stephen Wooler) in       2008, and remains in the role.
Since 2009, the directorship has provided       one of the key vehicles through which to generate impact derived from the       research.
The Board oversees the running of the Inspectorate,       which scrutinises the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) and the Serious       Fraud Office.
It sets the strategy and vision for the Inspectorate.
It       also oversees joint inspection activity carried out by the Inspectorate       with other inspectorates.
The ideas developed in the research - such as       the need for robust methodology, the value of thematic inspection, the       need for `lay' involvement in inspection, the need for inspection to be       informed by research, and the value of transparency - have underpinned       Professor Shute's work on the Board and hence have informed the       broad strategy the Inspectorate has set for itself.
His research has also       had a strong impact on specific significant policy changes, such as the       decision in 2009 to move away from rolling programmes of area inspections       to a more risk-based approach, as well as (also following arguments drawn       from the research) ensuring that the broader strategy of the inspectorate       pays proper attention to using inspection resources efficiently to the       benefit of the public; ensuring that inspection reports are clear,       authoritative and influential; and ensuring that the inspectorate never       loses sight of the need for the criminal justice system to work       holistically.
These policy changes were achieved through presentations and       discussion at Board meetings.
Stephen Wooler, the former HM       Inspector of the CPS, has explained [see Section 5, C1] that Professor       Shute's contributions, based on his research, were central to the       introduction of various changes in inspection practice.
Michael Fuller,       the current HM Chief Inspector of the CPS, further notes [C2] that       Professor Shute's research influenced key aspects of inspection practice,       including the highly- significant decision `to move away from the long       established rolling programmes of CPS Area inspections to a more       risk-based approach'.
Member, Ministerial Advisory Board on Joint           Inspection in the Criminal Justice System:     This Ministerial Advisory Board was in place for four years,       ending in October 2011.
The Board had three independent members,       including Professor Shute.
Its role was to provide ministers with high-       level advice and guidance on strategic issues concerning inspection across       the criminal justice system.
For a period of four years, it was       influential in the decisions taken on strategy for joint inspection and       helped to shape the joint inspection programme itself.
The fruits of       Professor Shute's academic research programme were folded into the advice       that the Board offered.
The ideas presented, both orally at Board       meetings and via letters and memoranda sent formally to the three criminal       justice ministers and the five Chief Inspectors, included the importance       of a proportionate approach, the value of `whole system' inspection, the       value of unannounced inspection, and the need to inspect neglected parts       of the criminal justice system (such as pre- court summary justice).
Stephen Wooler affirms [C1] that the Board's impact came from its       ability to draw on leading-edge research to identify strategic priorities       and emphasis.
He further affirms that the research carried out by       Professor Shute was particularly influential in this regard.
Similarly,       Michael Fuller [C2] states that Professor Shute's research, and the ideas       and principles and approaches to inspection and the practical suggestions       for change that it generated, `all had a strong influence on the Board's       discussion, its general approach, and the decisions it then took on the       shape of the joint inspection programme that it approved'.
A further argument presented by Professor Shute in the research described       in this case study is that inspection must be evidence-based and       evidence-led.
Drawing on his research, Professor Shute made that point       forcefully to ministers at Board meetings.
As a `direct result' of       this argument and its translation into practice, `the Criminal Justice       Chief Inspectors' Group now has regular meetings with Ministry of Justice       and other Whitehall officials in order for the officials to keep them       abreast of government research in the areas they inspect jointly' - an       approach which has also `helped promote the development of an       evidenced-based approach to the formulation of criminal justice policy by       Ministry of Justice officials' [C2].
Chair, Independent Crime Statistics Advisory           Committee:     In 2011 Professor Shute was appointed as the inaugural Chair of this Advisory         Committee, which was established by the National Statistician (Jil       Matheson) with the approval of the Home Secretary (Rt Hon.
Theresa May).
The Committee's role is to provide advice to the Home Secretary,       the National Statistician, and HM Inspectorate of Constabulary.
Its Terms       of Reference explicitly state that it should advise HM Inspectorate of       Constabulary on its audits of police crime recording and data integrity.
In accordance with that duty, it has assisted the Inspectorate to develop       inspections of two key issues: freeing up police time, and crime data       integrity.
The Chair's role is to provide strategic leadership for the Committee,       including setting its vision and acting as its ambassador with key       stakeholders within government and across the public arena.
The analysis       and argumentation set out in the research described in this case study       have provided the touchstone which has informed Professor Shute's work as       Chair in relation to the Inspectorate.
The fruits of his research have       been folded into the advice offered to the Inspectorate concerning the       construction of its current programme of inspection of crime data       integrity, including emphasising the importance of rigour and       transparency, advising on methodology, and emphasising the need to collect       time-series data to provide information about changes in quality in this       important area over time [C3].
Member, Independent Advisory Panel on Deaths in           Custody:     The role of the Panel is to help shape government policy in       relation to deaths in custody, through the provision of high-level advice       and expertise.
It is sponsored by the Ministry of Justice, the Home Office       and the Department of Health, and its members are appointed by ministers.
Professor Shute has been a member of the Panel since 2009.
He       leads on information flows across the criminal justice system.
As part of       that work, and building on the ideas drawn from the research, he initiated       an inspection by HM Inspectorate of Prisons (with HM Inspectorate of       Constabulary) on the way in which information of risk of harm is       transferred between criminal justice agencies.
This has been published as       The Use of the Person Escort Record with Detainees at the Risk of Self         Harm: A Thematic Report by HM Inspectorate of Prisons [C4].
The       Report recommends changes relating to record-keeping, better       documentation, better training, better health-care screening, more       effective quality control, and more effective inter-agency collaboration.
The National Offender Management Service (NOMS) has accepted [C5] all of       the recommendations in the Report which are its responsibility, and this       should result in changes which reduce the risk of self-harm for those       detained in custody.
High-Level Seminar on the Inspection of Corruption in Prisons:     Organised by HM Chief Inspector of Prisons (Nick Hardwick), with       Professor Shute, and held in London in October 2012, this seminar was       informed by Shute's research, which was `crucial to the way the       discussions were framed` [C6].
The seminar was attended by senior       stakeholders in the field and has `informed current thinking on the       strategy to eliminate corruption in prisons and on inspection of this       difficult issue' [C6].
Appointing HM Chief Inspector of the CPS:     In December 2009, Professor Shute served as the independent member of a       four-person interview panel, which recommended to the Attorney General a       preferred candidate for the position of HM Chief Inspector of the CPS.
Ideas set out in Professor Shute's research, such as the need for risk-       based inspection, were central to this process.
In all these areas, the research described in this case study has       influenced the thinking of ministers, senior policy-makers, and the       criminal justice inspectorates.
It has had a `demonstrable impact' [C2] on       their work.
By helping the inspectorates to improve our criminal justice       services and by promoting `the development of an evidenced-based approach       to formulation of criminal justice policy by the Ministry of Justice       officials' [C2], it has made a difference which touches us all.
