     Higgs' work on census data and identification has had three impacts:       through the I-CeM project,       the research has brought benefits to the commercial activities of an       industrial partner; through       Higgs' advice to the European Association for Biometrics, the research has       informed ethical       guidance for the collection and storage of biometrics data throughout       Europe; and through the       submission of expert testimony Higgs has informed the operations of state       census-data collection       and archiving both in the UK and in Germany.
Contributing an Historical Dimension to the Ethics of European         Biometrics     Given his extensive research and publications in the history of       identification, Higgs was invited to       take part in a number of EU-funded programmes bringing together European       Commission officials       and biometrics vendors to discuss the merits and dangers of biometric       systems.
These included       the RISE project (Raising pan-European and International Awareness on       Ethical Aspects of       Biometrics and Security Technologies) and the TABULA RASA project       addressing direct attacks to       trusted biometric systems, both funded via the EU's Framework Programme 7.
Higgs is now a       member of the Ethics Committee of the European Association for Biometrics,       a non-profit       organisation advancing the proper and beneficial use of biometrics in       Europe, with participation by       industrial stakeholders such as Safran Morpho, European governments, and       international bodies       such as the European Commission and European Parliament.
Higgs is also a       member of the       Integrated Mission Group for Security Task Area 3 (IMGS-TA3) group on       Ethics, Society and       Human Factors providing information and policy documents for stakeholders       in European security       research, specifically those engaged in research orientation and       management (within the       European Commission H2020 programme), national security research       representatives and       directors, as well as end-users and regulators.
Feedback on Higgs' contributions to these groups includes the following       statement from the Chair       of the Ethics Committee of the European Association for Biometrics:     Professor Higgs was invited to contribute to both the RISE and the TABULA       RASA projects.
On       the basis of his contribution to those projects Prof Higgs was appointed       as a member of the       Ethics Committee of the European Association for Biometrics.
As a member       of the Ethics       Committee he has helped to develop the EAB's ethics policy.
Specifically,       Prof Higgs has       provided valuable advice on the historical dimension of the ethics of       biometrics.
His advice has       led to the inclusion of an historical dimension into the ethical policy       produced by the European       Commission and the EAB.
Chair of the Ethics Committee of the European Association for         Biometrics     Influencing State Archiving and Social Science Policy (UK and Germany)     In 2012 the UK Government mooted an end to the British census.
In       response to this suggestion a       Parliamentary Select Committee heard evidence from a variety of       institutions with interests in       census data.
As a leading historian in the field, Higgs was invited to       submit evidence to the       Parliamentary Select Committee on Science and Technology respecting the       future of the British       census.
In his evidence Higgs argued that substituting the census with       alternative means of data       collections would seriously undermine the usefulness of this data for       historical research, and that       alternative data sources would need to meet a number of criteria that are       presently only met by       census data [corroborating source 2].
Higgs' contribution, along with       other evidence submitted to       the Committee, resulted in a Committee report that warned that alternative       sources of data would       need to be significantly improved in order to be an adequate substitute       for census data       [corroborating source 3].
In 2013 Higgs was invited to speak at the State Archives North       Rhine-Westphalia in D&#252;sseldorf.
The State archives held a colloquium addressing the topic `Archives and       Statistics' attended by       around 100 local state archivists, statisticians, and social scientists.
Higgs spoke about the I-CeM       project and the general state of historical censuses and data sets in       Britain in order to inform State       Archive discussions of how to improve archiving and the access of official       statistics in Germany.
Feedback from an archivist at the State Archive who organised the event       confirms that Higgs'       contribution is helping the State Archives make decisions about       cooperation with commercial       providers and the presentation of census data online [source 4].
Find My Past &#8212; benefitting I-CeM's industrial partner     In 2009 Higgs and Schurer went into partnership with Find My Past to       undertake the I-Cem project.
Find My Past (FMP) is a company that provides online genealogical services       to over 2 million       amateur genealogist customers.
I-Cem offered FMP a way to enhance its       services in order to       increase competitive advantage.
FMP's raw census data was provided to the       project in order to       code, classify, and enhance the data.
This is an on-going collaboration       with FMP that has already       brought benefits to their operations during the project and has       anticipated benefits for their future       business.
FMP's Business Development Director lists the following as       benefits of the I-CeM project       to FMP's business so far [source 5]:     Knowledge transfer &#8212; discussions between in-house data team and project       leads have enriched       our own ideas for enhancing our data clean up and standardisation       procedures, which have       been used to benefit data not included within the project.
Association       with the project has       provided validation of our own data collection to the broader genealogical       and archive       community &#8212; we have used this in publicity and tender application     Director of Business Development and Licensing, Find My Past     The enhanced dataset is due to be handed to FMP by the end of 2013.
Once       the dataset has been       incorporated into the business of FMP, their Business Development Director       anticipates `improved       search experience for customers [and] competitive advantage...resulting in       increased revenue and       customer retention' [source 5].
