     EAP research has resulted in a series of engagements with policy makers,       mental health advocacy groups, senior members of the judiciary,       social-care and health-care professionals, and civil servants.
Through       these engagements the EAP has guided and informed policy debate and       discussion of how best to implement the legal standard of best interests,       and in some cases whether best interests decision-making is acceptable at       all.
In 2010 EAP was awarded a 27-month, &#163;337,315 AHRC grant.
The grant       allowed the Essex research team to add research staff, build a network of       connections with senior members of the UK judiciary, and fund a series of       public-policy engagements with these contacts.
Since 2010 members of the       Essex team have worked directly with the Office of the Public Guardian,       the Law Commission, the Court of Appeal, the Department of Health, the       Ministry of Justice, the Official Solicitor, the Court of Protection, the       British Medical Association, the Royal College of Medicine, the Royal       College of Psychiatry, Amnesty International Ireland, and the Mental       Health Foundation.
EAP's engagement with these institutions has included       organising and contributing to practitioner events (Community Care       Conference, November 2012; working seminar at the Royal College of       Psychiatrists, April 2013; public debate with a KCL Professor of Law and       Judge Gordon Ashton of the Court of Protection, March 2013) and two public       policy roundtables.
The roundtables were organised by the EAP and       co-sponsored by the Office of the Public Guardian.
These were closed-door       meetings, held under the Chatham House Rule, in which discussion of best       interest decision-making was guided by briefing documents drafted by       members of the EAP research team and based on EAP research.
The       roundtables have ensured mutual benefit for EAP and their judicial       partners, keeping EAP research informed of the problems faced by public       policy professionals, and feeding EAP research into public policy       decision-making.
The roundtables were held on 25 July 2011 and 16 January 2012.
Attendees       included:     Lord Justice Munby (Then Chair of the Law Commission and Current Member       of the Court of Appeal)     Martin John (The Public Guardian)     Paul Gantley (MCA Implementation Manager, Department of Health)     Alistair Pitblado (The Official Solicitor)     John Leighton (Social Care Institute of Excellence and Cambridgeshire       County Council)     Caroline Hilder (Judge of the Court of Protection)     Julian Sheather (Ethics Committee of the British Medical Association)     Joan Goulbourn (Ministry of Justice)     Heather Hurford (Care Quality Commission)     One output of the meetings was a digest report of each roundtable       summarising the meeting's recommendations.
These digests have been posted       on the EAP website; one digest was picked up by and hosted on Mental       Health Law Online, an online mental health practitioner resource       [corroborating source 1].
The digest adds to a body of online resources that the EAP have developed       for policy makers concerned with the legal concept of best interests       decisions.
The EAP website hosts Green Paper Reports (7 thus far),       Technical Briefings (5), and Research Articles (6), each of which present       EAP research in a form accessible and relevant to the concerns of public       policy professionals.
The EAP website receives over 17,000 unique visitors       per year [based on July 2012-June 2013 analysis, corroborating source 2].
EAP's contribution to debate about mental health policy has also reached       international beneficiaries.
The REF impact period coincided with a period       of intense scrutiny of mental health law in Ireland, where policy makers       have been debating how to write new legislation to comply with the UN       Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
One of the most       controversial issues addressed in the debate has been whether this new       legislation should incorporate best interest provisions.
This debate has       culminated in the Irish parliament's publication of the Assisted       Decision-Making (Capacity) Bill in July 2013.
EAP's contribution to this       process has been achieved primarily through two events.
In June 2012       Martin was invited by Amnesty International Ireland to facilitate a       seminar attended by fifteen organisations, including government agencies,       professional bodies, and public sector lobbying groups, who had been       working together to develop recommendations for Irish legislators drafting       a new bill.
This seminar was followed in November 2012 by a workshop       facilitated by EAP, in which Amnesty International Ireland's `citizens'       jury' were asked to explain their process and decisions to NGOs and       professionals engaged in the development of new mental health legislation       in Ireland.
Martin's contribution to Amnesty's campaign on Ireland's new       legislation was well received by their Public Affairs Executive:     The Essex Autonomy project was of significant help to our mental health       campaign.
Wayne Martin's expertise and enthusiasm shone through, and this       married with the unique philosophical approach was of great help...Both       workshops were successful in challenging people to be more creative in       their thinking about autonomy and were catalysts for stimulating and       challenging discussions.
Public Affairs Executive, Amnesty International Ireland     The most recent development of EAP policy impact has been their       collaboration with EDSECT, the Eating Disorders Section of the Royal       College of Psychiatrists.
In April 2013, Prof Martin was invited to       facilitate a day-long meeting of EDSECT.
The meeting was held at the       London headquarters of the Royal College and involved 40 professionals       from the UK and Europe who work with patients with Eating Disorders.
The       focus of the meeting was a pair of Court of Protection cases in which the       MCA best interests framework had been applied for the first time to cases       involving life-threatening Anorexia Nervosa.
That meeting culminated in a       collaborative session in which Prof Martin coordinated a discussion to       generate draft guidelines concerning best interests decision-making for       patients with severe and enduring Anorexia Nervosa [all above EDSECT       impact corroborated by source 4].
In July 2013, EDSECT invited Prof Martin       to incorporate the results of the April meeting into a formal submission       to the House of Lords Select Committee on the Mental Capacity Act       [corroborating source 5].
This invitation will lead to further impacts       beyond the end of the REF impact period, both influencing the Royal       College of Psychiatrists in their submission of evidence, and potentially       influencing the Select Committee in their post-legislative scrutiny of the       Mental Capacity Act.
Given constraints of space, we include here just one example of feedback       received from public officials concerning the impact of the Essex work on       best interests:     Their small-scale public policy seminars have fostered frank and free       exchange of ideas across the usual professional divides, and have helped       explore and communicate important recent developments in the law that       governs social care.
The `Green Paper Technical Reports' and `Seminar       Digests' available on their website provide valuable and accessible       analysis of key developments and dispute.
For example, their document       `Deprivation of Liberty and DoLS' provides a useful analysis of early       reactions to the Court of Appeals ruling in Cheshire West and Chester       Council v P [2011] EWCA Civ 1257.
I recently made reference to this digest       in my keynote address to a large audience of local authority officials and       social workers at Leeds.
Former Chair of the Law Commission and current Member of the Court of         Appeal
