     Ades' research in Surrealism and its ethnographic practices informed a       major exhibition of       Surrealism that she curated at the Vancouver Art Gallery in 2011.
Through       the exhibition Ades'       research helped to bring a variety of benefits to her partners at the       Gallery.
The Colour of My         Dreams was the first comprehensive exhibition of Surrealism in       Canada and broke new ground by       exhibiting Surrealist work alongside Canadian First Nations objects that       had once been collected       by Surrealist artists.
Ades' choice and curating of those objects was       guided by her research in this       area.
The research also aided Ades' diplomatic efforts with First Nations       community       representatives, guiding the Vancouver Art Gallery's consultation process       to secure permission to       include First Nations objects in the exhibition.
The result was a highly       successful exhibition that       established connections between the Gallery and First Nations groups,       inspired future Vancouver       Art Gallery projects in this area, attracted over 100,000 visitors, and       helped increase the popularity       and credibility of the Gallery.
First Nations diplomacy, securing permission for Vancouver Art Gallery     There is considerable sensitivity to use of First Nations objects in       gallery exhibitions.
At first the       Vancouver Art Gallery project met with opposition, particularly to the       proposal to include First       Nations work in an exhibition of `Western art'.
This was seen as a       neo-colonial appropriation of       First Nations work that would emphasise the exotic elements of that work       without attention to its       meaning or function.
In order to respect these sensitivities, the Gallery       undertook an extensive       consultation with representatives of the First Nations, artists, academics       and anthropologists from       the Museum of Anthropology at the University of British Columbia.
Ades       contributed substantially       to the consultation, using her research to inform the discussion of the       way the Surrealists had       respected First Nations objects and arguing that the exhibition could echo       this respect.
Ades also       directed Vancouver Art Gallery staff to secure permission from those whose       ancestral works were       to be considered for the exhibition.
As a result of Ades' diplomatic work       the exhibition received       approval from a range of communities sensitive to its proposed content       [confirmed by a Professor       involved in the consultation from Simon Fraser University, corroborating       source 1].
This preparatory process was not only vital to the exhibition itself, but       also had impact for the       Gallery after the exhibition.
Ades' collaboration with the Gallery was       integral to bringing not just her       expertise but also the expertise of those she identified as important       contacts for the consultation       process.
The combination of her input and those of the First Nations       representatives, artists, and       academics that Ades brought to the consultation resulted in a significant       learning experience for       the Gallery and has prompted new activities in this area at the Gallery,       as confirmed by its Chief       Curator and Associate Director:     Equally significant was the learning that took place with staff of the       Gallery as well as for       other individuals who participated in the consultations.
There was a       remarkable sharing of       knowledge that was generous and productive on all sides and has produced       long-term       relationships for the museum.
These conversations also ignited an interest       in this topic with       several people furthering these ideas through other projects that are       still in production &#8212;       [Ades] was a catalyst.
Chief Curator and Associate Director, Vancouver Art Gallery     The Exhibition and its impact     `The Colour of My Dreams' was held at the Vancouver Art Gallery from 28       May 2011 to 2 October       2011.
The exhibition featured 350 works by leading Surrealist artists       including Salvador Dal&#237;       (Lobster Telephone), Max Ernst (The Forest), Joan Mir&#243; (Photo:         This is the Colour of My Dreams)       and Man Ray (Emak-Bakia).
Alongside the Surrealist pieces, the       exhibition featured a number of       First Nations objects including a Kwakwaka'wakw headdress, two Yup'ik       masks from Alaska, and a       Haida feast bowl.
As noted by the Director of the Vancouver Art Gallery, The Colour of         My Dreams `breaks new       ground by exploring, for the first time in an exhibition, the Surrealists'       intense interest in indigenous       art of the Pacific Northwest' [corroborating source 3].
The exhibition's       novel juxtaposition of First       Nation objects and Surrealist art was both informative for visitors to the       exhibition, and the focus of       most of the overwhelmingly positive reviews of the exhibition.
The exhibition was covered by over a dozen local, national, and       international publications,       including several reviews that spoke very favourably of the exhibition as       a whole and in particular       of the juxtaposition of Surrealist work and First Nations pieces.
Most       reviews describe this as the       big surprise of the exhibition.
In the words of one reviewer, `the       exhibition does a wonderful job of       showing the links between Surrealism and the art of the Northwest Coast.
That in itself was a       revelation' (Kevin Griffin, Vancouver Sun; see also inter alia       Steven Harris in Journal of Surrealism         and the Americas (6.1) and Leah Sandals in Canadian Art (2       June 2011) [corroborating sources 4-6]).
In the words of one of the local Professors involved in the consultation       process, the exhibition       `enjoyed universal appeal in the city of Vancouver and beyond; it was       warmly received by museum       professionals, scholars, critics, artists, gallery members and, judging by       the line-ups outside the       gallery, by the general public.'
[corroborating source 1] The success of       the exhibition has,       according to their Associate Director, benefited the reputation of the       Vancouver Art Gallery:     The exhibition was 10,000 sq feet in size, with over 300 works of art,       with a 335-page book       that had 14 authors besides Dawn Ades &#8212; it was a superior project and we       could not have       been happier with the results!...As a result, this exhibition has brought       the Vancouver Art       Gallery great merit and credibility in the museum world.
Chief Curator and Associate Director, Vancouver Art Gallery     The exhibition resulted in significant visitor numbers and revenue       through guided tours and shop       sales:     Vancouver Art Gallery Data for `The Colour of My Dreams' [corroborating       source 7]       Visitor figures: 104,746       Guided tours: 188       Visitors included in tours: 4,048       Income from guided tours: $14,104 (Canadian)       Sales in Vancouver Art Gallery shop related to exhibition: $273,912       Total Vancouver Art Gallery revenue from exhibition: $288,016
