     Essex research into Latin American art has increased professional and       public awareness of the       history and significance of this field.
This research has been integral to       the growing global       recognition of Latin American art among artists, curators, art critics,       collectors, galleries and       museums.
Through their collaborations with a variety of influential art       institutions, including Tate       and Pinta, the researchers have used their expertise in the field to       influence the acquisition and       exhibition of Latin American art, and have helped to introduce       contemporary Latin American artists       to global art markets.
Essex researchers have also used their research to       inform non-specialist       audiences, and have educated the general public and schools through a       series of public       engagement events that highlight the significance and value of Latin       American art.
Tate &#8212; influencing Latin American art acquisition and exhibition     The University of Essex has a close and on-going collaborative       relationship with Tate, and Essex       Latin American art researchers continue to influence Tate's acquisition       and exhibition of Latin       American art.
Since 2000 (the opening of the Tate Modern) the Tate       Collection has acquired 317       works from Latin America [corroborating source 1].
Ades has been a Tate       Trustee and a member       of Tate's Collections Committee, and was instrumental in setting up the       Tate Latin American       Acquisition Committee.
In 2011 the mutually influential relationship       between Tate and the       University of Essex was formalised in a Memorandum of Understanding signed       by both institutions,       recognising the `strong relationship between UoE and Tate in the field of       Latin American art       studies' that has been `centred on the sharing and exchanging of       information and expertise, on       research and on loans of works of art' [corroborating source 2].
The significance of this relationship for Tate has been attested on a       number of occasions by senior       figures at the institution.
The Director of Tate has written of the       importance of ESCALA and Essex       research in letters to the Essex Vice-Chancellor [corroborating source 3]       and spoke of Tate's close       relationship with Essex at the launch of ESCALA online:     whatever the Tate does really follows in the footsteps of what the       University has already       done     Director of Tate [source 4]     The Director's statements are echoed by the Director of Tate National,       who has confirmed the       `strong relationship with Tate over many years, involving joint research,       the exchange of       information and loans' [source 5].
Pinta &#8212; introducing new Latin American artists to global markets     Essex researchers have also partnered with Pinta: The Modern and       Contemporary Latin American       Art Show, which takes place in London and New York on an annual basis.
Pinta promotes the       collecting of Latin American Art internationally by displaying and selling       new Latin American work,       and by organising a public programme consisting of lectures and       discussions in which researchers       inform collectors, curators, artists, and museums of their latest       research.
Ades and Fraser were       invited members of the host committee for Pinta London 2012, and Essex       researchers curated the       2012 Pinta public programme.
The Essex team invited individual artists,       especially those who have       been the focus of Essex research, to speak as part of that public       programme.
This exposure at Pinta, arranged by Essex art historians, has boosted       interest in the work of some       previously unknown artists.
The works of aruma (Sandra de Berduccy) and       Cecilia Vicu&#241;a have,       for instance, received a great deal of attention as a result of Essex       involvement in Pinta.
ESCALA       arranged an exhibition including work by aruma and Vicu&#241;a with England       &amp; Co. (one of London's       leading galleries), while aruma was invited to perform, exhibit, and sell       artworks at Pinta 2012 as       part of the public programme organised by Essex researchers.
The       exhibition was so successful       that the directors of Pinta invited England &amp; Co. to exhibit the work       of aruma and Vicu&#241;a in the       New York edition of Pinta, where aruma sold all of her artworks.
In June       2013, England &amp; Co.       exhibited their work at Pinta in London again and, at the same time,       mounted a solo show of       Vicu&#241;a's work in their own gallery.
ESCALA's support for emerging artists       has been testified by       one of those artists, who in communication with ESCALA has stated that       `without the support you       gave me since the beginning none of the good things that have happened to       me would have been       possible' [source 6].
The Institutional Director of Pinta, has confirmed `the significant       contribution that the University of       Essex and the ESCALA Collection does in raising global awareness of       Latin-American Art, its       artists and history'.
Research in Latin American art was one reason why       Pinta decided to establish       its art fair in London: `Pinta, the Latin American Modern and Contemporary       Art Fair in London, has       chosen the UK to establish its fair, as we recognize that many       institutions are interested in Latin       American Art, such as Essex University that strongly contributed to its       knowledge' [source 7].
ESCALA's public engagement &#8212; exhibiting and teaching about Latin         American art     ESCALA also runs an extensive public programme.
The ESCALA website hosts       research       publications by Essex Latin American art researchers; publicises ESCALA       news, activities, and       exhibitions; facilitates online browsing of ESCALA's art collection; and       solicits donations from       members of the public to fund ESCALA's activity.
The website receives       approximately 750,000       visitors annually from over 60 different countries, and received a total       of &#163;197,142 in artwork       donations and &#163;138,806 in financial donations during the impact period       January 2008 &#8212; July 2013       [all records of ESCALA public engagement on file as corroborating source       8]     Many ESCALA exhibitions are organised in collaboration with a local       gallery.
Art historians at       Essex have worked for many years in close partnership with firstsite, a       contemporary visual arts       organisation in Colchester, in the programming of Latin American art in a       dedicated ESCALA       exhibition space.
Firstsite foregrounds Latin American art in recognition       of the research culture that       can underpin its programming in this area, and the distinctive identity       for contemporary visual arts       programming that can follow.
Firstsite was opened in 2011 and has so far       hosted four exhibitions       from the ESCALA collection along with performances by Latin American       artists.
The ESCALA       exhibitions have had 66,875 visitors in the impact period.
ESCALA's public programme includes frequent educational events for the       local community,       families, and schools.
In the impact period there have been 5 such events       with firstsite, Colchester       Academy (local sixth form college), and Art Exchange, the University       gallery, reaching 22 schools       and a total of over 250 participants.
