     Improved understanding of internal air system flows and heat transfer has       reduced engine development time and testing costs; and indirectly       contributed to improvements in production and operating costs, component       life and weight, efficiency, and CO2 emissions.
The use of computational models in place of engine tests has allowed       Rolls-Royce to save an estimated &#163;10M on engine testing and contributed to       the improvement of engine design models in a range of areas [C1].
Fully Coupled CFD Model     The computational fluid dynamics model was coupled to the Rolls-Royce       in-house thermo-mechanical analysis program SC03 in 2006; and has a       capability which is still at least four years ahead of that available       commercially [C1].
The fully coupled model is used extensively by       Rolls-Royce and has been applied effectively to many engine projects       including the V2500, Trent 700, 900 and 1000 engines.
In some very specific cases [C1] the code has been validated against       engine test data, and used with Certification Authority approval, in       support of life predictions of critical engine components.
It is estimated       that the use of the code has prevented four engine tests from having to be       carried out, a direct saving of &#163;8M.
The use of this Certification Authority approved method has increased the       accuracy of component life predictions and increased the operating periods       between recalls; thus Rolls-Royce, as well as their customers, have seen       considerable reductions in cost and disruption.
The value is impossible to       calculate, but has been informally estimated at around a billion pounds       over a ten year period.
Measurement and Validation     Correlations of heat transfer data acquired from the experimental work,       since the early 1990s and subsequently built upon, have been adopted by       Rolls-Royce for use in computational models predicting surface       temperature, displacement, stress and critical component life.
These have       been applied to the internal rotating surfaces of high pressure compressor       drums, where the use of computational models of the fluid flow, CFD, to       acquire heat transfer data are impractical due to the unsteady nature of       the flow field coupled with buoyancy effects.
The correlations are used extensively in current thermal models of Trent       series engines.
The main benefit to Rolls-Royce is more accurate       predictions of the life of critical components, which can be used to       determine service and replacement intervals, resulting in improved       operation with the accompanying financial benefits [C1].
The work on the interaction of the internal air system flow with the       drive shaft provided discharge coefficient data for the holes in the drive       shaft used to transfer the internal air system flow to the turbine stages.
This allowed Rolls-Royce to proceed with the design of the Trent series       contra-rotating turbine section, allowing a 0.5% improvement in Specific       Fuel Consumption (SFC), without having to carry out a &#163;2M engine test.
The study that investigated enhancement of heat transfer from compressor       discs has provided very comprehensive design data for future generations       of actively-cooled engines.
At the very least, this would allow a 30%       reduction in the clearance between compressor blades and engine casing at       cruise conditions with a corresponding 0.2% reduction in SFC.
An       appreciation of the value of this data can be obtained from the fact that       Rolls-Royce are exploiting the findings and applying the results to       current and new engine designs [C1].
Rolls-Royce has used the turbine rim seal flow and heat transfer data to       validate computational predictions of flow structure and convective heat       transfer for some (Trent series) engine components.
The understanding       gained through this research is being used to optimise cooling air       consumption in Trent series engines, and to determine turbine disc       integrity and cyclic life.
The results from this work have not allowed       engine tests to be replaced with modelling but it does have the potential       to do so [C2].
A direct impact of the work is a reduction of 0.1% in SFC       of Trent XWB engines now on order, this amounts to an extra passenger on       each plane.
GE Aviation Impact     A new research partnership was formed with GE Aviation in 2011.
This was       motivated by the unique test capabilities and skills at Sussex, as       described in the open literature, [R2, R4-R6].
Work carried out for GE has       already had an effect on processes and productivity improvements leading       to a direct saving of $0.55M (&#163;0.34M) [C2].
Environmental Benefits     The environmental impact of the research described, beyond the economic       benefits to Rolls-Royce and GE, is to contribute towards a 2% reduction in       SFC from reduced turbine cooling flow, improved turbine and compressor       efficiency, and a 2% reduction in CO2 emissions, by the       engines currently in use.
Broadly, the benefits of research into gas       turbine technology are indicated by an improvement of 1% in cruise       specific fuel consumption (SFC) on a single aircraft engine being worth       around $100,000 (&#163;62,000) / year, 2013 prices, in reduced fuel costs.
The       improvement in SFC is matched by an equal saving in CO2       emissions and a 1% reduction in CO2 is equivalent to a saving       of about 600 tonnes of CO2 per engine / year.
To put this in       perspective, the current fleet of British Airways aircraft has over 600       engines, and Virgin Atlantic has about 150.
