     The impact of Cherished Heartland took three major forms:            It made a significant contribution, through the executive and         legislature of the devolved Welsh administration, through shaping           and influencing policy towards rural Wales in general, and the         dominant landmass of upland Wales in particular;       It stimulated the development of a collaborative commercial           enterprise which drew constructively on the recommendations which         emerged from the overall framework of the underpinning research, and has         subsequently acted to achieve improved social, cultural and         environmental sustainability;       It provided focus and impetus to the development of a third sector           organisation concerned with the sustainable conservation of the         upland system, working to promote public awareness of the environmental         assets of the Welsh uplands and to promote its recreational use in ways         which avoid damage.
The shaping and influencing policy was led, primarily, by the       convening of a conference to respond to the report for which impact is       claimed (output 3.5), by the then Minister for Environment, Planning and       Countryside.
This occasion was used to announce the setting up of a Task       and Finish group on "Sustainable Farming and Environment: Action Towards       2020" (source 5.1).
The group had an independent chair, and included       Midmore among its membership.
Its remit was to develop a vision for 2020       on sustainable farming and land use, taking account of environmental       issues, rural communities and social welfare, and to report on policy       options for the Welsh Government.
The chair's introduction states "The       `Cherished Heartlands' report, commissioned by Brecknockshire Agricultural       Society to look at future scenarios and make policy recommendations for       the hills and uplands of Wales, concluded that a prosperous future for       farming in upland Wales can be achieved only if appropriate policies are       adopted by both government and the industry itself."
(p. 5).
The 67       recommendations made in its report were incorporated into a Welsh       Government policy document in 2009, "Farming, Food &amp; Countryside:       Building a secure future &#8212; A new strategy for farming" (source 5.2), which       embraced wider issues such as rural tourism, community development,       climate change and collaborative enterprise, and were given statutory       expression in reforms to the EU Rural Development Programme in Wales       (source 5.3).
Also in 2009, the National Assembly Rural Development Sub-Committee       established an inquiry into the future of the uplands, in which written       and oral evidence drew extensively on the Cherished Heartlands report       (sources 5.4 and 5.5).
The prospects of approximately 17,000 people who       work in full-time in farming in the Less Favoured areas are directly       affected by these policy developments, and 3,000 work in the meat       processing industry.
Leisure and recreation opportunities generate almost       24,000 jobs in Wales as a whole, and a further 10,000 full-time equivalent       jobs in environment-related activities (sources 5.10 and 5.11).
A collaborative commercial enterprise was established in 2007 in       the form of a multi-stakeholder consortium, initiated by Powys County       Council and the Prince's Charities in Wales, to pursue sustainable rural       development objectives.
The impetus came from the policy issues raised by       Cherished Heartland, and is directly acknowledged in the       feasibility study of the Cambrian Mountains Initiative (CMI).
An overview       document states "The 2005 Cherished Heartland report ... provided the       stimulus for collaboration between the local authorities of Ceredigion,       Powys and Carmarthenshire, the Countryside Council for Wales and The       Prince's Charities to establish the Cambrian Mountains Initiative" (source       5.6).
Although not formally a cooperative, the Cambrian Mountain Company       Limited (the operational vehicle) is managed by farm and tourism business       owners, along with local and national environmental NGOs, and support from       a public sector steering group which ensures that programmes are tailored       and funding streams pooled to achieve maximum impact.
The CMI has worked       closely with a range of stakeholders to improve marketing of food and       tourism, to enhance community development and to improve environmental and       ecosystem management (source 5.7).
It has developed producer involvement       in branding and marketing for "Cambrian Mountains Lamb" as a premium, high       profile product, and has established the locality as a distinct, quality       tourism destination by achieving widespread support for its Destination       Development Plan, and a growing number of Tourism Ambassadors.
Each of the       main communities in the locality belongs to the Cambrian Communities       Network, part of which involves preparation of an area Action Plan as the       main tool for improved community engagement.
Finally, it has led research       on ecosystem service delivery including whole-farm carbon footprinting       analyses and adaptation of ecosystem service delivery to climate change.
Five project groups focus on delivering targeted objectives in the areas       of tourism, produce marketing, ecosystems, capacity building, and the       built environment, heritage and communities.
The initiative is also       designed to develop a model for the Welsh Government to influence future       rural policy delivery.
The third sector organisation was the Cambrian Mountains Society,       established to promote the significant opportunities arising from       improvement of the economy and strengthening social structure by       responding to threats including the decline of agriculture and landscape       degradation.
It has used the Cherished Heartlands report       extensively, in its major policy statement in 2008 arguing in favour of       obtaining AONB status for the Mid Wales region (source 5.8), which states       "The publication of Cherished Heartland by Professors Midmore and       Moore-Colyer draws attention to the problems of agriculture in the uplands       of Wales, and to the likelihood that decline will continue", p. 4) and, in       common with the RSPB and the Welsh Association of National Parks, in       evidence to the 2010 National Assembly Sub-Committee inquiry noted above.
Its activities closely parallel those of the Cambrian Mountains       Initiative, but as a charity rather than an enterprise whose revenue       partly consists of public funds, it is able to engage directly in lobbying       and campaigning (source 5.9).
The society continues to flourish, in       campaigning and in providing educational and recreational events for its       growing membership.
