     The research has benefitted Central Bank and central government       researchers and analysts in enabling the refinement and calibration of       appropriate models to forecast the impact of monetary policy.
It both       informed international policy debate and informed the methodology that in       turn frames that debate.
(3.2) was cited by HM Treasury in its 2003       assessment of tests for single currency membership, supporting the policy       conclusion that UK housing market instability presented risks for       membership.
The importance of capital windfall gains on consumer spending       levels is an issue that has only relatively recently been addressed       through detailed micro-econometric investigation.
High levels of       volatility in national housing markets raise important macro-economic       modelling and forecasting considerations for central bank and finance       ministry research departments internationally.
Of particular importance is       the extent to which fluctuations in housing market activity are       transmitted through to the aggregate economic prosperity via a direct       wealth effect (mortgage equity withdrawal) or via indirect household       confidence effects.
Such housing market concerns have recently been       re-expressed as the UK economy emerges from current austerity.
The impact of the first major research finding described above, that       households respond proportionately more to adverse price movements than       positive ones and therefore induces "precautionary saving" behaviour, is       seen in the public comments of a former member of the UK Monetary Policy       Committee, citing (3.6): "An added uncertainty is whether consumers might       respond proportionately more to downside news on house prices than to       upside.
There is only one recent study of which I am aware that       investigates such asymmetric behaviour in the UK.
This concludes that       there was no significant tendency for spending to respond more to falling       house prices than to rising."
(5.1) A number of international central bank       research departments, including those of the European Central Bank and the       Bank of England, have also noted the significance of this research result       (a non-exclusive list includes 5.2, 5.4, 5.5).The UK Office for National       Statistics has also noted the importance of this finding in the context of       how the phenomenon of negative housing equity might affect monetary and       financial stability (5.3).
Project research findings, identifying other       differences such as those between age groups, have also attracted the       attention of central bank researchers and advisors (5.9, 5.10).
The       research has therefore informed public policy, internationally, of the       significance of housing market activity to monetary stability.
The impact of the second research finding, extracting unanticipated house       price shocks from local data, is seen in (5.7).
Alongside this the       importance of controlling for household expectations (confidence) is       recognised.
A recent survey for the ECB, based on an evaluation undertaken       for the United States Federal Reserve (5.8), cites (3.7) as one of three       recent studies providing the "best available microeconomic evidence and       methodologies".
Other ECB work (5.5) includes citation and discussion of       the body of this project work, (3.7) and related work, as a component of       the evidence base which informs policy-makers on how evidence from       household finance and consumption micro-data for macroeconomic policy       formulation.
The third research finding on the relationship between the housing market       and household spending benefitted policymakers across the world by       providing a more nuanced understanding of the underlying transmission       mechanism.
The housing "wealth effect" is on average very small.
Best       estimates including those estimated by this research suggest that only &#163;1       of every &#163;100 gain in personal housing wealth is spent (3.6 cited in 5.3,       5.6, 5.8).
On the other hand wealth effects on consumption may be quite       significant for those households who in future might be lifted from       negative equity (3.6 cited in 5.4).
Policy makers are therefore able to       benefit by appreciating that macro-economic forecasting models need to       incorporate these considerations in order to achieve greater accuracy.
This research provides benefit by highlighting particular risks for       monetary authorities in setting interest rates and regulating housing       finance markets.
