     The strength of this EOS research, with its wide ranging set of       Physics-based Earth Observation (EO) capabilities has been carried forward       into impact through translation of EOS technologies (methods and data)       into the private sector at both regional and national levels.
The       expertise of Remedios has also been called upon at national level to       provide input into the development of UK industry and government strategy.
Translation of Earth Observation Science Technology to the Private           Sector.
1.
Regional.
Translational activity on a regional scale began in 2009 with the launch       of the Global Space Technology Exchange Partnership (G-STEP), a bespoke       service offered by the University of Leicester to open up opportunities       derived from Earth Observation technologies to small and medium-sized       businesses in the East Midlands.
This business-facing service "de-mystifies" Earth Observation data and       shows how more information can be obtained from these data beyond the       GoogleEarth-type approach.
The driver for G-STEP was the realisation by       Remedios and Professor Monks (Chemistry) that their work on the analysis       of EO data had significant and valuable potential for the private sector.
In its first 3 years, G-STEP added more than &#163;1 million in value to the       regional economy through engagement with SMEs [a].
Auditable benefits [b]       to the regional economy include three collaborative projects with industry       partners, collaborative projects with regional authorities, over 30 direct       engagements with regional SMEs with no previous awareness of space       technologies leading to six active projects with SMEs with identifiable       business benefits.
In addition, G-STEP has arranged twelve graduate placements into       businesses; six young graduates have been given career starts through       internships; two start-up companies [c] have worked in the G-STEP       incubation unit; 25 high value jobs have been created with an estimated       three times as many new positions in the relevant supply chain.
Projects       are also being undertaken with national companies in agricultural and       urban markets.
2.
National     The G-STEP service experience showed that reliable EO data supply and EO       data quality were key concerns for business.
Leicester was able to promote       academic Earth Observation methodologies as a solution.
This led to       Leicester involvement in the national industry-led Climate and Environment       Monitoring from Space (CEMS) Facility at Harwell.
This purpose-built       facility [d], now part of the newly formed Satellite Applications       Catapult, offers Earth Observation data to businesses and organisations,       giving users access to extensive data holdings and a range of       applications, tools and services that help them analyse their data more       effectively.
Leicester played a key role in the design, set-up and initial operation       of the facility, advising on system usage and operations.
Remedios led the       Leicester CEMS effort, which was directed through the National Centre for       Earth Observation and STFC RAL.
As a member of the Project Implementation       Team, working alongside industrial partners from Astrium GeoInformation       Services and Logica Plc (now CGI), he was instrumental in setting the user       specifications of the system, leading a CEMS data quality study with a       major Earth Observation company (Vega UK, now Telespazio Vega UK) and       providing demonstrations of EO data which were used to "prove" the system       [e].
The CEMS system went live in July 2012 and has since been accessed by       15 commercial projects in its first year, paying &#163;250,000 to CEMS and       earning revenues several times this number [e].
Development of UK industry and government strategy     The extensive experience of Professor Remedios through G-STEP and CEMS       led to his invitation by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills       to serve as a Steering Board member for the Innovation and Growth Strategy       (IGS) Restack &#8212; an update of the 2010 strategy being undertaken for BIS.
The Board is led by Andy Green former CEO of multinational IT and       management consultancy company Logica Plc (now CGI).
It reports directly       to Mr. David Willetts as Minister of State for BIS, and to his Space       Leadership Council.
Professor Remedios has been one of the Board members "sponsoring" the       market analysis for IGS, which projects and justifies a growth of &#163;40       billion in the space sector by 2030 with 100,000 new jobs.
He is involved       because approximately 20% of this growth is forecast in EO markets and his       key responsibilities are to verify the market analyses, refine project       recommendations for government and industry, and advise on strategic ways       forward for the space industry [f].
In doing this, he has worked alongside       CEOs of major UK space companies, SMEs and the UK Space Agency       particularly in the first half of 2013 when the bulk of the work occurred.
[g]
