     Nature of the Impact:     The work of the ITPU under the terms of its framework contract with the       European Parliament has       had significant impact in stimulating and informing practitioner and       policy debate and shaping EU       policy in the area of international trade.
This case study focuses on two       specific contributions:     1) Impact on the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement     In 2011 for the first time the European Parliament used the new powers       granted to it under the       Treaty of Lisbon to decide whether to approve the Free Trade Agreement       (FTA) negotiated by the       European Commission with the Republic of Korea.
This agreement was not       only the most       ambitious FTA ever negotiated by the EU, and its first trade deal with an       Asian country, it also set       a precedent for EU trade policy as the first FTA adopted under the EU's       Global Europe Strategy of       2006 and for the EP's approach to its new post-Lisbon powers.
The EU is       currently involved in FTA       negotiations with Japan, India, the USA, and a range of ASEAN countries.
Under the terms of the ITPU's framework contract, Dr Woolcock, leading a       number of consortium       partners, produced a comprehensive 100-page assessment of the proposed FTA       [A].
The findings       of this study were reinforced by Dr Woolcock's presentation to INTA's       public hearing in June 2010       [B].
This study found the FTA to be in the EU's broad interest.
It       assessed the impact on a range of       sectors and employment and found that the terms of the agreement were on       balance positive and       that the arguments put forward by some defensive sectors in the EU       exaggerated the scope and       impact of increased Korean imports.
These findings were endorsed one year       later when Woolcock       produced a further study on the application of the FTA, along with key       stakeholders, for INTA's       evaluation of the impact of the FTA in October 2012 [C].
The LSE assessment was recognised as presenting an authoritative,       balanced and independent       assessment of the proposed agreement, and was instrumental in facilitating       approval of the       agreement by the EP, despite heavy lobbying from some vested sector       interests that sought to       block the agreement.
The LSE assessment was cited by the Commission in a       written answer to the       European Parliament [D] and recognised by Mr Ignacio Garcia Bercero, the       chief EU negotiator of       the agreement, as making a significant contribution to the eventual       passage of the agreement [E].
2) Impact on EU Investment Policy     Following the Lisbon Treaty's extension of exclusive European Union       competence to foreign direct       investment (FDI), the ITPU was commissioned to produce a background study       setting out the       opportunities presented by this development and the challenges that might       be faced in developing       a coherent and balanced EU approach to investment.
This aspect of Lisbon       was designed to       enable the EU to conclude comprehensive trade and investment agreements,       where in the past its       coverage of investment has been only very partial, and in turn strengthen       the EU's ability to shape       international investment policy.
The ITPU study, The EU Approach To International Investment Policy         After The Lisbon Treaty [F],       supported by Dr Woolcock's oral evidence to the International Trade       Committee [G], identified four       major issues: the lack of a definition of FDI and thus the scope of EU       exclusive competence; the       need to define the main elements of an EU sustainable investment policy;       the need to decide       which third countries should be given priority in EU level investment       agreements; and the need to       agree how to manage the transition from member state bilateral investment       treaties (BITs) to EU       level investment agreements.
By its nature the ITPU study required an       interdisciplinary approach       to the topic and combined international political economy and legal       analysis.
The ITPU played a significant role in framing the parameters of the       debate taking place within the       EU on the scope and nature of EU investment policy, and not just within       the INTA Committee in       the Parliament, but also elsewhere in the EP, including the European       Economic and Social       Committee [H].
Cumulative Impact     In these cases and in the other work carried out by the ITPU under the       framework contract and       underpinned by Dr Woolcock's research and that of colleagues associated       with the ITPU, LSE       research has made a significant, and often crucial, impact on the       thinking, deliberations and       ultimate decisions of the trade committee.
In doing so, LSE research has       been central to ensuring       informed debate in Europe on these important issues.
The LSE has also been       proactive in       proposing initiatives.
This led for example to a workshop in the European       Parliament in May 2012       that brought together key stakeholders and policy-makers to discuss the       EU's position on the       proposal to use plurilateral agreements as the response to the deadlock in       multilateral trade       negotiations and the rise of emerging markets [I].
Why the Impact Matters: The EU governs the largest single market       in the world, and its trade       policies have systemic consequences for the behaviour of governments,       firms and individuals       across the world.
By informing the work of INTA, Dr Stephen Woolcock's       research is helping to       ensure that those policies work effectively.
