     Hughes' music restores the excitement and meanings of early silent films       by translating experimental visual forms such as montage into the music       itself, thus rendering these iconic films more immediate and accessible.
His music for more recent experimental film forms also brings silent       images to life.
In both forms his work has impact upon two kinds of users:       (1) arts professionals, including critics, broadcast programmers and arts       curators; and (2) contemporary audiences for film.
1.
Impact on Arts Professionals     The version of Eisenstein's Battleship Potemkin with Hughes'       music was used by documentary filmmaker Mark Cousins in `The Story of         Film: An Odyssey' (2011), a major Channel 4 documentary series on       the history of film, in which Hughes' version of the famous Odessa Steps       sequence was used to explain Eisenstein's principles of montage [see       Section 5, C1].
The British Library's exhibition `Breaking the Rules' (2007-08) on       twentieth-century avant-garde art, presented Eisenstein's Strike       with Hughes' music performed live as part of a series of events in the       Atrium of the British Library [C2].
The scores for Ivens' film Regen and for Eisenstein's Strike       have had impact upon international arts programmers: Regen has       been presented at the `Hanns Eisler' public symposium in Berlin, 1       November 2008, including an evening public performance attended by 250       people, and at the Institut f&#252;r Neue Musik - Studios f&#252;r Filmmusik,       Freiburg, 9 May 2012; the score for Strike has been presented in       Tel Aviv, Israel, 17 December 2011, conducted by Ilan Volkov [C3].
The version of Auditorium with recorded sound track was used to       educate and inform curators on the uses of music in the display of visual       materials in museums and galleries when it was shown to international       gallery and museum curators at the V &amp; A `Displaying Music' event, 15       July 2011 [C4].
The film has also been selected for presentation by film       and gallery curators more widely, including Tate Britain (08 March 2008),       Brixton Ritzy (19 April 2008), Palazzo Santa Margherita, Modena (20 April       2008), and Nichido Contemporary Art, Tokyo (10 April 2009) [C5].
Dark Formations, which presents a video sequence of documentary       photographs of World War Two bombing raids from the Imperial War Museum       archive, with music by Hughes, has also impacted upon the way in which       museum curators present archive images, as evidenced by Roger Tolson,       Principal Curator, Imperial War Museum: `The methodology of Dark         Formations has been a direct stimulus to how to re-think the       selection, narration and display design of disparate groups of material,       and one that I believe will enrich these and future displays' [C6].
2.
Impact on Film Audiences     Despite the importance of music for our experience of film, its effect is       often subliminal and unrecognised by film audiences.
Indeed, some       film-makers argue that the music for a film should be unnoticed,       making it difficult to evaluate the nature of the impact of Hughes' music       on audiences directly.
However, Hughes has also explained his methods       extensively through engagement with film audiences and viewers - e.g.
he       was interviewed on BBC Radio 3's flagship contemporary music programme `Hear         and Now' on 3 May 2008 in relation to his score for Strike,       a 12-minute section of which was then broadcast in the same programme       [C7]; an extract from Auditorium was heard and discussed on BBC       Radio 3 on 2 December 2008 in `Performance on 3' as part of the       2008 British Composer Awards feature [C8].
Hughes' scores for the commercial Eisenstein and Ozu releases have       contributed to the consolidation of a market for silent film, which has       appealed especially to the UK market for DVD and Blu-ray releases in which       high-quality, imaginative audio tracks are strongly appreciated.
UK and       international DVD sales for the Ozu releases are estimated by the BFI at       around 3,000 as of 11 March 2013.
The Tartan Eisenstein discs had sold       1,765 units as of 11 March 2013, although these figures do not include       international and web distribution [C9].
Many of these sales are made to       institutions, thus increasing their audience reach substantially.
Sam Dunn, Head of BFI Video Publishing, comments on the impact upon       national and international audiences of Hughes' Ozu scores: `Working with       Ed Hughes on the BFI's on-going Ozu Collection has been a fantastic       experience.
His scores are of a consistently high standard, making these       rarely-seen silent works accessible to modern audiences and film scholars       alike.
Not only that, but his compositions are meeting with the approval       of the Japanese licensors, thereby transcending cultural difference and       functioning on an international stage' [C10].
