     The impact detailed below has been achieved as a consequence of the       relevant regulators being involved throughout the research process.
The       policy-oriented research was commissioned by the agencies.
Baldwin and       Black secured the commission &#8212; the outcome of a competitive bid &#8212; because       SNIFFER (the research forum for the agencies) recognized that their prior       research (2008, 2010b) had been favourably received by many regulators and       regulatory bodies.
The main objective of the commissioned research was to develop a strategy       for regulating low risk sites.
The data which Baldwin and Black (2012)       uncovers provide an essential basis for understanding how and why       risk-based regulation developed, how it was implemented, some of the key       challenges of implementation, how these challenges could be addressed, and       the significance of the institutional and political context for the       development and operation of risk-based regulatory strategies in low risk       contexts.
The Irish EPA has used the GRID/GRAF strategy to demonstrate legal       compliance with its European regulatory obligations.
Black and Baldwin       have collaborated with the EPA in implementing that approach (and in       providing an account of this process: 2013b pp.3-14; see also section 5,       source 5).
The Irish government had been found by the European Court of       Justice to be in breach of its obligations under EU law for the inspection       of septic tanks.
In response, the EPA developed a National Inspection Plan       for septic tanks based on the Black/Baldwin approach (an account of the       response is set out in 2013b pp.16-20).
This has been approved by the EU       Commission and was implemented in 2012.
Evidence of the impact of the Baldwin/Black approach can be found in       chapter 4 of the Irish EPA's Inspection Plan for Domestic Waste Water         Systems (section 5, source 6), where the Plan is explained.
Following the Baldwin and Black framework, the EPA makes it clear in       chapter 4 that determinations as to whether owners of domestic waste water       treatment sites are complying with their statutory obligations should be       based on regulatory standards which accord with "the principles of Better       Regulation", which means (among other things) "focus[ing] on risk-based       inspections" of treatment systems while also lowering the costs of       carrying out risk assessments by introducing a site registration system       which puts the burden on site owners to disclose, rather than on site       inspectors to discover, risks of contamination (p.12).
The details of the       plan, elaborated at pp.13-28, are in line with GRID/GRAF specifications.
According to Laura Burke, Director General of the Irish EPA:     "[T]he research work [on GRID/GRAF] undertaken Professor Julia Black and       Professor Robert Baldwin addressed a key challenge in the regulation of       wastewater from single houses and was timely in that it influenced policy       not only alone here in Ireland but also in the European Commission's       Environment Directorate.
The solution required an understanding of the       challenge from an environmental perspective but also the motivation behind       how people act on this environmental issue.
Another unique and important       feature of Professor Black and Baldwin's work was the interface between       independent research and framing a solution for the regulator....
Overall,       the output of the research work and the interface between research and       policy is an excellent example of the value that can be gained from       expenditure on environmental research."
(Section 5, source 10.)
The reach of the research impact is considerable.
The UK Environment       Agency (UKEA) and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA)       utilized the Baldwin/Black framework when reviewing their approaches to       regulating small sewage discharges (including septic tanks) in the waste       and industrial sectors: see the testimonials from Nic Parr and Cath       Preston (section 5, sources 7 and 8).
The UKEA has used the framework as a       strategic planning tool for areas other than low risk sites, and is keen       to rely on it as a basis for policy discussions with Government.
SEPA is       using the GRID/GRAF model as the foundation for its "better regulation"       approach to pollution prevention and control at three types of low risk       site (water treatment facilities, petrol stations and dry cleaners):       section 5, source 9.
Furthermore, the EU network for the implementation       and enforcement of environmental law (IMPEL) has expressed an interest in       the research, as have environmental regulators in Australia.
Why the impact matters.
As a result of Black &amp; Baldwin's       research having had the impact demonstrated in this study, monitoring       protocols for low risk sites are being improved (so that the likelihood of       poor water treatment and similar facilities being unsatisfactorily       regulated is significantly lowered), and the Irish EPA, which was       previously in breach of its European regulatory obligations, can now       demonstrate compliance with the relevant provisions of the EU       Environmental Directives.
