     The research has had, and continues to have, four major areas of impact:     1) The research forms part of a long-term initiative on peacebuilding,       managed by UNICEF and funded by the Dutch Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
The research findings were directly employed in the creation of a       four-year, $200 million education programme for conflict-affected states       (2012-16).
Corien Sips, of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in an       interview in 2012, noted `The interesting study of Mario Novelli and Alan       Smith about Education and Peacebuilding was used as a building block for       the new programme' [see Section 5, C1, C5].
This new programme was       formally launched by UNICEF during the UN General Assembly, New York, in       February 2012 and Mario Novelli, University of Sussex, presented the       findings of the research to demonstrate the programme's intellectual       underpinnings.
2) A number of organisations, such as UNHCR and USAID, forming part of       the Advisory Board of the initial research programme, have engaged with       these conclusions and begun developing `conflict-sensitive' approaches to       education-programme planning in conflict-affected contexts [C6].
The       findings were also directly debated by the United Nations Peacebuilding       Support Office (PBSO).
As a result, they now form a key part of a paper       written for the PBSO (McCandless 2011), which states that the social       sectors, including education and health, need to be afforded a bigger role       in peacekeeping in the future, a clear policy shift for UN peacebuilding       work [C2].
3) The research is also having a profound impact on UNICEF's practice in       conflict-affected states, and particularly in the country partners for the       new $200 million Education, Peacebuilding and Advocacy Programme       (2012-16): Chad, DRC, Sierra Leone, Burundi, Ethiopia, Somalia, South       Sudan, Yemen, Pakistan, Myanmar.
Based on the research findings, each       country carried out an education-focused political economy and conflict       analysis at the beginning of the programme in order to ensure that       education initiatives were linked to the drivers of conflict in each of       the particular contexts.
Mario Novelli and Alan Smith led the pilot       political economy and conflict analysis in Sierra Leone in May 2012.
This       is the first time that UNICEF has undertaken these types of analysis to       inform policy and programming and this is transforming both the content of       and the rationale for education programming on the ground in these       conflict-affected countries.
For the first time in UNICEF's history,       peacebuilding is a specific component of education strategy in all of the       programme countries.
Furthermore, a peacebuilding and education       capacity-building process, both within UNICEF and towards partners and key       stakeholders in each of the programme countries, is being rolled out,       which directly addresses key finding 3 (see above) [C3, C4].
4) Furthermore, as evidence of the impact that the research is having on       UNICEF, Mario Novelli was contracted in 2012 to write the research       strategy for the new Education, Peacebuilding and Advocacy Programme       (2012-16) and to act as an advisor for country offices developing their       education and peacebuilding programmes [C3, C4].
He is currently in       discussion with UNICEF towards developing a 3-year research consortium on       the role of education and peacebuilding in conflict-affected states, in       partnership with the University of Amsterdam and the University of Ulster       [C3, C4].
