     Impact can be measured at a national level, through: changes to national       policy on assessment and on professional development; training materials       for all English Departments; teacher education, via key textbooks and       papers; and on students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Impact on National Policy and Professional Development:     In 2010, a new national assessment framework for talk in English (Assessing         Pupils' Progress, DCSF, 2010 [C1]) was built on the research       undertaken by Sutherland for the previous six years: exploratory peer talk       and reflection on talk were established as two of the four assessment       focuses to measure progress in talk across Years 7-9.
Evidence of direct       influence on this major shift in policy direction can be found in the       theoretical rationale for this policy, which first appeared in national       training materials for all English Departments and cited Sutherland's       second project (DfES, 2007) [C1].
Specific findings used were on the importance of inducting students into       exploratory, formal discourses, using ground-rules and metadiscoursal       reflection.
Such collaborative talk and associated higher-order thinking       are important for student cognitive development and academic achievement.
The rationale and accompanying training materials on how to develop       students' talk were distributed to Heads of English nationally and were       used in national training events for the Secondary National Strategy as       professional development for both Subject Leaders and teacher- educators       in Initial Teacher Education [C2].
Teacher Education:     Chapters by both researchers, drawing on their research on `Speaking and       Listening', `Wider Reading' and `The Secondary Literacy Strategy' feature       in three textbooks for English teachers (R3, R6 and: Davison, J. and       Dowson, J.
(Eds) (2009) Learning To Teach English in the Secondary         School, 3rd Ed, London: Routledge).
These books are cited       as key textbooks for secondary PGCE/GTP programmes on an Initial Teacher       Education (English) site, funded by the TDA [C3].
There is additional       evidence in the form of websites and corroboration statements from at       least four major ITE Departments nationally (for example, London,       Sheffield, Southampton and Reading), that these books are recommended key       texts and are having a significant impact on the practice of trainees and       experienced teachers of English, including those on Masters programmes,       across the country [C4].
Sales of The Complete Guide to Becoming an         English Teacher are 2,100 copies to date [C5].
Improved practice in schools drives pupil attainment:     Close engagement with six `flagship' schools has led to specific areas of       improved practice [C5].
Westbrook's research collaboration with one local       school, with predominantly low socio-economic intakes, triggered their       developing the Drop Everything and Read project, whereby all       students read daily for 15 minutes to develop a culture of independent       reading.
This has raised pupils' reading attainment and motivation to read       at KS3, based on school data, combined with data from the `Accelerated       Reader' computerised reading programme [C5].
The project is perceived by       the school to have contributed to a significant increase in their GCSE       English results over the last four years: in the last two years, the       percentage of students whose reading age was below average decreased from       60 per cent to 50 per cent.
Sutherland's work has led to innovative practice on guided reading and       group talk in a range of schools, including Brighton Aldridge Academy,       Dorothy Stringer High School and Peacehaven Community School [C5].
A new       project at Patcham High School, `Speak Out!'
(2011-14), is directly       influenced by Sutherland's work on collaborative talk: `Speak Out!'
develops the oral skills and confidence of the entire school, with a       particular focus on preparing students from lower socio-economic groups       to progress to successful employment, training or education.
`Speak Out!'
is currently working directly with three other schools in areas of       socio-economic deprivation in Sussex, to embed their model of how to       develop talk and reading, drawn from Westbrook and Sutherland's research,       across the four schools, to be extended via these satellites to other       school clusters in 2014 [C6].
