     Lewis has teamed up with Digital Explorer, a non-profit organisation run       by Royal Geographical Society committee member Jamie Buchanan Dunlop       (section 5; source 1).
This organisation pioneers educational expeditions       to provide lesson plans and multi-media resources free of charge to       classrooms both nationally and internationally.
Following the successful       Catlin Arctic Surveys, Catlin approached Digital Explorer to develop a       schools education programme to deliver the research questions and findings       straight from Lewis and her collaborating Arctic Survey scientists to the       next generation, thus providing a lasting legacy of their expeditions and       raising awareness of ocean acidification and Arctic climate change as       global issues to the scientists of tomorrow.
The resulting `DE Oceans'       Programme has produced a set of education resources that are informed by       research, inspired by the Arctic field work of Lewis and her Catlin Arctic       Survey colleagues' Dr Helen Findlay of the Plymouth Marine Laboratories       and Dr Victoria Hill of Old Dominion University, Virginia, USA.
The DE Oceans Academy has produced the `Frozen Oceans' education       programme that provides free classroom resources for UK and international       schools.
This comprises resource booklets with over 50 lesson plans and       over 60 activity sheets (section 5; sources 2-4), and multimedia resources       with over 30 videos and 200 photos for Key Stage 3 and GCSE Geography and       Science.
The DE Oceans Academy also provides educational events and       workshops, and ocean ambassadors, including Lewis, to speak at schools       across the U.K.
The oceans do not feature prominently in the National       Curriculum but they are undeniably important to our future.
The DE Oceans       approach has been to identify areas of the curriculum where oceans case       studies and examples are appropriate, enabling them to be incorporated       easily into existing classroom topics whilst introducing students to the       oceans at the same time.
The free school resources also include multimedia resources, enabling       teachers to build lessons around the latest scientific research carried       out by Lewis and her colleagues through the Catlin Arctic Survey.
With       video clips of the scientists including Lewis at work in the Arctic, over       200 photographs plus maps and scientific diagrams, the materials not only       share new science but also give insights into the way scientists live and       work in this extreme environment.
These lessons are full of practical       ideas to bring carbonate chemistry and marine biology to the science       classroom.
Since the `Frozen Oceans' multi-media resources were launched online in       September 2011 they have provided over 2,338 resources, which have been       distributed and used in 1,224 schools or related organisations,       representing 30% of all UK secondary schools (section 5; source 5).
The       Frozen Oceans Resources are also being used in schools internationally,       including a teacher training workshop run for teachers from 15 schools run       in Alaska by COSEE (Centre for Ocean Science Educational Excellence http://www.cosee.net/).
Multiple downloads of the DE Oceans resources have been recorded for       internationally in Australia, The United States, Portugal and The       Philippines and the online DE Oceans channel has received visitors from 85       countries.
The resources are also being used in Portugal and Sweden (Sven       Loven Marine Station, Gothenburg University) by university education       departments as a case study on oceans education.
Gillian Reid (Perth       Grammar School &amp; Kinross High School) has made Scottish curriculum       versions of the DE Oceans resources for use in Scottish Schools.
Lewis also presented the DE Oceans resources at the International       conference on `Oceans in a High CO2 World' to the `Effective       Practices for Communicating Ocean Acidification' workshop held at the       Monterey Bay Aquarium, California in September 2012.
Digital Explorer       together with Lewis and Helen Findlay (PML) also ran three teacher       training weekends for a total of 26 teachers, who then led cascade       workshops for four of their subject colleagues, reaching a total of 104       teachers &#8212; 24 found the course excellent and 81% are very likely to use       the Frozen Oceans resources with their pupils.
These weekends trained       teachers in a number of marine topics, such as ocean acidification,       thermohaline circulation, and marine biodiversity, using the Arctic       expedition as the main example but also covering the fundamental science       underpinning the research of the expedition.
The Frozen Oceans resources won a Silver award from the Geographical       Association in 2013 for `being likely to make a significant contribution       to geographical education' (section 5; source 6.
Research Councils UK       featured Lewis work with Digital Explorer as an example of Best Practice       in linking science with education (section 5, source 7).
The online       channel at oceans.digitalexplorer.com       was also established and received 8,430 visits, of which 5,748 were       unique, and 20,232 page views from 85 countries.
Lewis' work with Digital       Explorer has featured in Geographical Association Magazine, Times       Educational Supplement, Association for Science Educators magazine and       numerous educational blogs.
Digital Explorer have conducted a       survey of the users of the Frozen Oceans Resources.
An example that demonstrates the impact that these schools' resources       have had on the learning enjoyment of the children using them are the       children of Magdalen College School, Brackley who, after using the DE       Frozen Oceans resources, persuaded their teacher Daniel Waistell to       develop an entire Oceans scheme of work to build on their enthusiasm for       ocean science.
Inner-city science summer school event: In       July 2012 Lewis participated in a further Catlin sponsored educational       outreach event run at St Paul's Way Trust School, a Faraday Specialist       Science School in the East-end of London, run by the school's patron Prof       Brian Cox and Lord Andrew Mawson and supported by the London Regeneration       and Community partnerships, London Legacy Development Corporation (section       5; source 8 &amp; 9).
This event specifically targeted inner city London       school children who might not consider a scientific career within their       reach given their backgrounds.
The Science Summer School offered Year 11       and 12 students studying science at GCSE or A level the opportunity to       learn from and interact with some of Britain's leading scientists through       a programme of seminars, discussion and hands-on experiments.
150 children       from St Paul's Way, the 14th most improved school in the       country since becoming a Faraday Trust school, and 4 other local East       London inner-city schools attended the 2-day summer school.
Scientists       presenting included Prof Brian Cox, Prof Jon Butterworth (CERN); Dr Nick       Lane UCL), Prof Matthew Cobb (Manchester), Prof Hagen Bayley (Oxford) and       Ceri Lewis, who talked about her Arctic Ocean acidification research and       introduced the children to a sea urchin encounter.
