     Integrated pest management, a concept introduced for sea lice control by       the IoA, is now employed       by all the major cultured salmon producing countries (see the 2013 Sea       Lice Integrated Pest       Management workshop http://aquafeed.com/read-article.php?id=4954).
The impact of IoA's sea       louse research in the REF assessment period 2008-2013 is clearly       demonstrated by     1) industry reliance upon integrated pest management strategies developed       through IoA,     2) increasing levels of industry support and funding for sea lice       research at IoA,     3) sustained growth in the Scottish and global Atlantic salmon       aquaculture industry     4) welfare and economic impact through incorporation of IoA research       findings into industry       codes of practice and the involvement of IoA in formulation of Scottish       Government       policies for farmed fish health and welfare.
IoA sea louse research continues to have major impacts in controlling sea       louse numbers infecting       farmed fish in the UK and globally, reducing economic costs, supporting       sustainability and       protecting fish welfare.
Impacts on fish health and welfare:     IoA research was involved in the development of the majority of       veterinary drugs used to control       sea lice 2008-13.
The Technical Director of the Scottish Salmon Producers'       Organisation (which       represents &gt;95% UK producers) has stated that "Work carried out at IoA       has been directly       responsible for providing encouragement and support to international       pharmaceutical companies in       the identification, testing and licensing of new veterinary products for       the treatment of sea lice" and       that "In the course of the past decade, IoA staff have undertaken cutting       edge scientific work that       informs and supports those in the industry responsible for the control of       lice and the welfare of       fish".
By facilitating new treatments, particularly emamectin benzoate       (SLICE&#174;), IoA has had a       major impact on the control of sea lice worldwide.
MSD (Merck) Animal       Health confirm that,       working with IoA "...we have conducted studies on efficacy and dosing to       support the registration       of Slice throughout the salmon farming world and recently conducted       studies to assess the impact       of the development of tolerance and ways to assess it and combat it."
Impacts on consumer health:     Improved growth and sustainability of the Atlantic salmon industry,       resulting from IoA's impact in       improved sea louse control, has impacts on consumer health by provision of       affordable and       sustainable healthy protein and essential fatty acids.
The Managing       Director of Marine Harvest       (Scotland) Ltd.
Comments that "loA have increased the sustainability of       salmon farming in rural       communities and reduced environmental impacts through provision of       effective assessment       methodologies and improved consumer health through sustainable healthy       food production as well       as providing various essential services for government and industry."
Impacts on economy and commerce:     Over recent years, the strategy of UK and global salmon aquaculture has       been one of integrated       pest management.
As recognised by the Managing Director of Marine Harvest       (Scotland) Ltd. "loA       have contributed to improved economic sustainability of the salmon farming       industry through       development of novel chemotherapeutants, integrated pest management,       selection for genetic       resistance in salmon, involvement in public policy, industry codes of       practice and legislative       development through chairing and membership of national/international       bodies".
In summarising       commercial impact, the SSPO states "...IoA has made a significant       contribution towards better       scientific understanding of this commercially important parasite, and that       the application of this       science by industry has, in a number of important respects, been       transformational."
Impact on management practices:     The impact of IoA on management practices is confirmed by the Scottish       Salmon Producers'       Organisation: "The scientific work of the IoA has supported the salmon       farming industry in       developing a range of strategic and practical approaches focused on       minimising impact.
Prominent       amongst these approaches is Area Management, which involves separating       year classes within       defined production areas, fallowing after year classes have been       harvested, and synchronising and       coordinating treatment with approved veterinary medicines across       Management Areas.
This       approach was first developed in Scotland in the late 1990s on the back of       new science and now       forms the basis of good practice in commercial salmon farming       internationally".
This impact is also       endorsed by Paul Wheelhouse, Scottish Minister for Environment and Climate       Change who       confirms "We recognise the value of the University's work to develop       appropriate management       approaches, which include fallowing, single-year class stocking, and the       use of cleanerfish".
Use of       Management Areas, fallowing and single-year class stocking are key tenets       in the newest Code of       Good Practice for Scottish Finfish Aquaculture 2013 contributed to by IoA.
Impacts on public policy and services:     IoA research outputs have had considerable impact upon public policy,       industry codes of practice       and new legislation.
Richards has roles including SSPO veterinary advisor       and chair of the       Healthier Fish and Shellfish and Farmed Fish Health and Welfare Working       Groups within the       Ministerial Group on Aquaculture.
He is facilitator of the Fish Health       thematic area for the EU       Aquaculture Technology Platform and Chair of the National Sea Lice       Platform.
Key elements of IoA       integrated pest management strategies and research have led to policy       impact through direct input       into the Code of Good Practice for Scottish Finfish Aquaculture 2013, and       the Aquaculture and       Fisheries (Scotland) Bill 2013 as well as input into the conditions to be       attached to finfish business       authorisations including delivery of single year class stocking of sites,       sea lice treatment and       fallowing of appropriate scale management areas.
Impact demonstrated through industry funding of IoA research:     During the REF assessment period 2008-2013, the IoA had demonstrable and       increasing impact       through industry funding of sea louse research targeting elements of an       integrated pest       management strategy.
Over this period, industry funding for IoA and MERL       includes 41 medicine-associated       projects (&#163;1,306,719), seven bioassay/sensitivity/resistance mechanism       associated       projects (&#163;186,767) and eight functional feed associated projects       (&#163;271,340).
There are three       current Technology Strategy Board projects.
The first of these, 2011-14       "Development of a high-density       salmon SNP chip: a key tool for improving the competitiveness and       sustainability of the UK       salmon farming industry", is a collaboration with Landcatch Natural       Selection Ltd., Affymetrix UK       Ltd., University of Glasgow and University of Edinburgh (&#163;647,339) and       follows from the       underpinning research showing differential genetic resistance to sea lice       in Scottish farmed salmon       families.
The first SNP chips produced by this project are now being used       by the industrial partner       to find breeding markers for salmon resistance to sea lice.
The second       project "Production and       implementation of farmed wrasse in the Scottish Salmon industry" is a       collaboration with Marine       Harvest Scotland Ltd and Scottish Sea Farms Ltd., having a value of       &#163;2,139,000 for IoA and       MERL, and seeks to provide a sustainable farmed source of wrasse to be       used as biological       controls (cleaner-fish) to remove lice from salmon.
Impacts from this       project are already being felt,       with recent introduction of wrasse to a trial site in Scotland cutting       drug treatments from 8x per       farm cycle to none and giving direct savings of 7p per kilo (Scottish       production is &gt;158,000 tonnes       p.a.
and growing).
The final project leverages IoA's experience in sea       lice and sea louse vaccine       development, being part of TSB's Sustainable Protein call.
"Development of       a novel sea louse       vaccine: an environmentally friendly tool for increasing sustainability of       protein production in UK       salmon aquaculture" is an important collaboration with Pfizer (now Zoetis)       and Moredun Research       Institute (total &#163;2,992,000) with impact confirmed by the Head of       Pfizer/Zoetis Business       Development and Global Alliances up to 2013.
