     Istanbul convention     Chinkin's research has had significant impact by virtue of its having led       to the recognition of gender-based violence against women as a violation       of international human rights law.
Such violations now incur state       responsibility by virtue of the Council of Europe Convention on preventing       and combating violence against women and domestic violence (adopted by the       Committee of Ministers, Istanbul, 2011).
The Convention can be traced to       the Parliamentary Assembly's decision to establish an ad hoc Committee to       negotiate a legally binding instrument, clarifying and developing states'       obligations with respect to preventing and combating violence against       women.
Chinkin was one of two scientific advisors appointed to the       Committee.
She worked with states' delegations (from the 47 member states       of the Council of Europe and observer states), the Council of Europe       Secretariat and NGOs, and she produced working papers &#8212; based on her       research on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights &#8212; setting       out a typology for the protection of women and the duty of due diligence.
She also made multiple contributions to Committee debates and assisted in       drafting the Convention provisions.
(Section 5, source 2.)
The Convention is the first legally binding instrument in the world to       create a comprehensive international legal framework to prevent violence,       to protect victims and to end the impunity of perpetrators.
It includes       provisions which flow directly from Chinkin's research: e.g.
article 5       (`Parties shall refrain from engaging in any act of violence against women       and ensure that state authorities, officials, agents, institutions and       other actors acting on behalf of the state act in conformity with this       obligation.
Parties shall take the necessary legislative and other       measures to exercise due diligence to prevent, investigate, punish and       provide reparation for acts of violence covered by the scope of this       Convention that are perpetrated by non-state actors') has its basis in her       long-standing argument for due diligence as a mechanism for promoting       greater state accountability with a view to eliminating violence against       women (see, e.g., Chinkin 2001, p. 57: `Failure by the state to exercise       due diligence to prevent and punish violence against women constitutes a       violation of human rights for which it is responsible.
Implementation of       national laws that address gender-based violence is one very clear and       pivotal way in which women's subordination can be addressed').
In March       2012 the Prime Minister announced that the UK would sign the Convention,       which he described as `unprecedented' and `vital' as it would `lift the       standards of protection for women across Europe'.
The impact of Chinkin's research on the drafting of the Istanbul       convention is discussed in the testimonial of Liri Kopa&#231;i-Di Michale       (section 5, source 2), a Head of Division at the Secretariat General of       the Council of Europe.
Sexual Violence in Armed Conflict     In 2009, the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR)       introduced a programme on access to justice for women, post-conflict.
The       accompanying Report on The Protection of Economic, Social and Cultural       Rights Post-Conflict (2009), written by Chinkin and drawing on her       research on sexual violence in armed conflict, was presented at an expert       meeting of the OHCHR in Geneva and became a key component of the       programme.
The research has also been used by the OHCHR for interventions       at the International Criminal Court: this is discussed in the testimonial       of Madeleine Rees (section 5, source 3), a former representative of the       OHCHR.
Chinkin has also drawn on this research in assisting the FCO with       the UK's initiative on Tackling Sexual Violence as a Tactic of War and       Conflict.
Following the announcement of this initiative by the Foreign       Secretary, William Hague, in June 2012, Chinkin was invited to the FCO to       discuss the approach that should be taken (section 5, source 8).
Chinkin       further contributed to the UK's strategy as one of the speakers at the       conference organised by the FCO on this subject in November 2012 (section       5, source 7).
At the G8 meeting in April 2013, the UK used its presidency       to agree a declaration on preventing sexual violence in conflict.
Improving access to justice for women in Argentina     In 2012 Christine Chinkin was invited by the Public Defender's Office,       Argentina to present her research and to work with judges, defenders and       prosecutors of the federal and provincial justice systems on programmes       that would contribute to developing legal means and strategies for       enhancing women's access to justice.
The impact is evidenced by the       testimonials of the projects officer of the British Embassy in Buenos       Aires and the Ministerio Publico de la Defensa in Argentina (section 5,       sources 4 and 5).
Combating trafficking     Chinkin's research was a major influence on the development of the UN Recommended         principles and guidelines on human rights and human trafficking       (section 5, source 1).
These guidelines have been adopted by the UN       General Assembly and are used by all UN agencies and most states that have       subsequently adopted national plans of action on combating trafficking.
The impact of Chinkin's research on the guidelines is evidenced by the       acknowledgement in the introduction to the guidelines, and by the       testimonial of Madeleine Rees (section 5, source 3), former representative       of the OHCHR and now Secretary General of the Women's International League       for Peace and Freedom: "The OHCHR developed the Recommended Principles and       Guidelines on Trafficking in Human Beings, which is seen as the core human       rights guide on approaches to anti trafficking.
Professor Chinkin was a       contributor and her research was a major influence on the wording and       concepts of the Guidelines.
Adopted by the UN General Assembly, the       Guidelines are used by all UN agencies and by most states which have       subsequently drafted national plans of action on combating human       trafficking.
The OHCHR convened a major conference on how to prosecute the       users of women in the context of trafficking.
Professor Chinkin drafted a       concept paper [section 5, source 6] on how this could be done applying the       jurisprudence from the international ad hoc criminal tribunals and the       European Court of Human Rights....
This paper has been used in advocacy       with governments in the Balkans and with the UK and the models adopted       have incorporated some of the elements elucidated."
Why the impact matters.
The consequence of Chinkin's research       having had the impact demonstrated in this study is that, in the contexts       of the four international human rights projects detailed in this section,       the protection of women's rights &#8212; including the rules combating       trafficking of and violence against women &#8212; have been significantly       recognised and improved.
