     The basic understanding of fish reproduction acquired by the IoA       reproduction group led to the development of protocols for the salmon       farming industry to control early maturation.
Key strategies have been       identified and researched to tackle this problem, e.g.
reduction in the       prevalence of early maturing fish prior to harvest either using       photoperiodic treatment or sterility using chromosome manipulation, a       technique unique to aquatic fish and shellfish among farmed animals.
The       knowledge gained by the group in these areas has led to the implementation       of protocols, guidelines and practices within the industry that have       significantly improved the sustainability of the sector, generating growth       and increased profitability.
Optimised photoperiod regimes developed by the reproduction group in       collaboration with leading light manufacturers (BGB Engineering, Akva and       recently Philips Lighting) have led to a considerable reduction in the       prevalence of early maturation during the first year of salmon on growing       at sea from &gt;40% in the late 1990`s to &lt;3% (from 2008 onwards) and       reduced energy usage through a combination of timing and duration of the       light exposure window as well as the adoption of new lighting technologies       and standardised light intensity.
This has been implemented globally by       the salmon farming industry with companies that operate in all salmon       production countries (Marine Harvest, Scottish Seafarms) through knowledge       transfer activities (workshop, consultancies, training) and contributed       very significantly to reduce costs and improve fish welfare.
This       knowledge base has subsequently helped us pioneer similar light regimes       for Atlantic cod incorporating the use of specialist surface nets to shade       ambient sunlight, these were implemented commercially in Scotland and       Norway.
However, such light regimes do not address the potential       environmental concerns associated with salmon escapees interacting with       wild salmonid stocks (in Scotland alone, 1.9 million farmed salmon escaped       into the natural environment between 2002 and 2009 due to human error,       storm damage or holes in nets).
Therefore, there is an increasing pressure       from retailers, fish welfare standards and accreditation bodies, NGOs and       governments towards the development and implementation of sterile stocks.
While other strategies delay or limit the prevalence of early maturation       in culture, sterility fully suppresses puberty in females and by doing so       removes any introgression concerns for wild stocks in the event of       escapees.
Work done by the reproduction group is at the forefront of the research       on sterility through chromosome manipulation (induced triploidy) since       2008.
A suite of projects (Salmotrip, 2008-11, BBSRC, 2011-15 and       Salmotrip+, 2013-16) coordinated by Prof. Migaud in collaboration with the       world leaders in salmon production, breeding and genetic enhancement       (Marine Harvest, Aquagen, and Hendrix Genetics) investigated the       commercial feasibility of producing sterile salmon with a focus on       breeding and selection, fish performances, nutritional requirements, fish       welfare and deformity, and consumer perception towards such a new product.
Research performed by the group on triploid salmon led to the first       introduction of triploid salmon on the market in 2012 by Aquagen and the       first commercial scale farming in Norway (2.5 million triploid salmon eggs       produced in 2012) and Scotland (forecast of 1 million triploid eggs       produced in November 2013).
Research on nutritional requirements of       triploid salmon (2010-13) led to the development of triploid diets that       reduce skeletal deformities by as much as 50% and completely abolished       cataract prevalence (patent pending).
These dietary formulations are now       being commercially produced by one of the largest feed manufacturer in       aquaculture (Biomar) and supplied to farms on growing triploid salmon in       UK, Norway and Tasmania.
Knowledge transfer activities performed by the       group since 2008 had a very significant impact, not only on the fish       farming sector (producers, breeders, processors) but also on retailers,       non-governmental organisations (NASCO), governmental bodies and the       general public at national and international levels.
Project results have       been disseminated widely through workshops organised during the European       Aquaculture Society meetings in 2010 and 2011, trade journal articles and       scientific papers in peer-reviewed journals.
Importantly, data generated       is playing an important role in legislative decision-making regarding       future aquaculture policies and the use of triploidy within the salmonid       industries (rainbow and brown trout also) and fisheries.
A demonstration       of this is the introduction by the Norwegian coastal and fisheries       ministry of `green licences' for salmon farming where green standards must       be met through technological and operational solutions to reduce       environmental challenge including a substantial reduction in the negative       impact of escapes on wild stocks through genetic (i.e.
triploidy) and       physical containment.
Also, the UK Environment Agency (EA) has introduced       new legislation to protect wild brown trout in England and Wales and by       2015 all trout stocked into all but totally enclosed waters with no       significant natural brown trout populations will be with sterile       all-female brown trout.
This was made possible by research done in the       group which standardised triploidy induction technique and develop       monitoring tools for confirmation of triploidy status.
The impact of our research into the control of puberty in farmed fish, as       demonstrated above in salmon, cannot be underestimated as it is a key       milestone in the expansion of a sustainable aquaculture industry in       Scotland and worldwide.
