     Principal objectives of our research were to develop feed formulations       and feeding strategies for the replacement of fishmeal and fish oil in       feeds for farmed fish without compromising production, fish health and, in       particular, the levels of health-promoting n-3 LC-PUFA and the nutritional       quality of the products to consumers.
This work has resulted in farmed       salmon now being potential net producers of marine protein and oil       (2010-11).
This is a highly successful outcome given the previous       situation of salmon farming as the world's biggest consumer of fishmeal       and fish oil.
Underpinning studies investigated the effects of various fish oil       substitutes and blends, and the levels, duration and timing of       substitution, in trials encompassing the entire growth cycle of salmon       from first-feeding fry to market size (1998-2005).
The knowledge generated       informed industry on best practices for the substitution of fish oil with       vegetable oil in aquafeeds, and directly influenced commercial salmon feed       formulations that now show levels of fish oil substitution of between 25       and 70%, mainly with rapeseed oil.
Different formulations and feeding       strategies were devised for minimising negative effects on tissue omega-3       LC-PUFA compositions including partial replacement of fish oil over the       entire growth cycle, or complete replacement followed by a pre-harvest       `finishing' phase using feeds with fish oil to restore omega-3 LC-PUFA       levels.
The major impact of this work is that these strategies are now employed       by the industry with the majority of production utilising partial       replacement with oil blends, and the finishing feed strategy being       employed to ensure that products comply with the high specifications of       premium retailers and quality certification.
Recently, it was demonstrated       that feed formulations have enabled farmed salmon to be net producers,       rather than consumers, of marine protein and oil (Crampton et al., 2010;       Bendiksen et al., 2011).
The impact of our research into the substitution       of fish oil in aquafeeds cannot be underestimated as the global supply of       fish oil would have been exceeded several years ago if substitution of       fish oil, particularly in salmonid feeds, had not been researched and       successfully implemented.
Our contribution has not simply been to ensure       the continued expansion of aquaculture in a more sustainable manner, but       has specifically focussed on ensuring that the nutritional quality of the       product was not compromised.
Omega-3 LC-PUFA levels are critically low in       Western diets and we cannot afford to allow levels in fish, the primary       source of these essential nutrients in our diet, to decline significantly.
The applied research was supported by fundamental studies including the       application of molecular and genomic technologies such as transcriptomics       and proteomics that provided the basic science underpinning our       understanding of molecular, biochemical, and physiological aspects of       omega-3 LC-PUFA metabolism in fish (2006-12; Monroig et al., 2010; Morais       et al., 2011).
A major impact of these studies was that retention of       omega-3 LC-PUFA in flesh was a heritable trait in Atlantic salmon and so       could be enhanced by selective breeding (2009-11; Leaver et al., 2011).
Another impact was fish genes cloned in our lab being utilised in studies       to introduce the LC-PUFA biosynthesis trait into oilseed crops (Robert et       al., 2005).
Six projects had international partners with the Nutrition Group being a       core consortium partner in all these projects (coordinator of FOSIS and       RAFOA) and the lead partner with respect to fish oil substitution and       omega-3 LC-PUFA metabolism and nutrition.
Uptake of these research       findings has been through very direct pathways as all the research was       performed in collaboration with the major global feed companies (BioMar,       EWOS and Skretting), either as partners in major RCUK (FOSIS) or EU       projects (RAFOA, FORM, AQUAMAX &amp; ARRAINA), or through industry-led       collaborative projects with BioMar and EWOS.
In most cases the studies       were also performed in collaboration with major fish producers, such as       Marine Harvest, in their own facilities for semi-commercial scale trials       using sea pen cages and fish grown to market size.
Many projects included       other key players in the aquaculture supply chain including oil producers       (Croda, DSM, Technology Crops Inc), fish breeding companies (Landcatch       Natural Selection), processors (Pinneys), retailers (Sainsburys), and       trade organisations (Scottish Salmon Producers Organisation, Federation of       European Aquaculture Producers).
All results were disseminated widely in       the scientific literature, at conferences and workshops, and in trade and       technical reports and the national press.
This led to the rapid       application of the findings in the form of new commercial formulations and       feeding strategy recommendations that were made widely available so that       beneficiaries included the entire aquaculture sector from feed       ingredients, feed manufacture, fish producers and processors, to retailers       and consumers including SMEs.
Key to this was the role of the Nutrition       Group as principal partners in an EU FP5 Thematic Network (FORM, Fish oil       and meal replacement) with a specific KT/KE remit focussed on exchange of       information and an output consisting entirely of exploitation and       dissemination activities primarily through four annual meetings/workshops       where our results were presented to a wide audience of key stakeholders       including the aquaculture industry, trade organisations, consumer groups       and health and safety authorities.
The Nutrition Group has been at the heart of the consultations and       committees defining aquaculture nutrition research not only in the UK and       Europe but also globally.
In the early phase of EU FP6, the Nutrition       Group, along with our key collaborators in Norway (NIFES) and France       (INRA), developed an Expression of Interest that was adopted by the EU and       resulted in two new Calls, providing research funding of almost &#8364;25       million to the SEAFOODplus and AQUAMAX projects that spearheaded EU       research in aquaculture nutrition over the subsequent years (2006-2010).
Bell was a key member of the European Aquaculture Technology and       Innovation Platform (EATIP) (2008-2010) and was leader of Goal 1 tasked       with a remit to "Strengthen sustainability of aquaculture by developing       Future Fish Feeds based on a sound scientific basis".
The EATIP programme       was adopted in an EU FP7 call on aquafeeds that was answered by the       ARRAINA project in which the Nutrition Group are members of the core       consortium.
Recently, Tocher was an appointed member of the US National       Academies, National Research Council (NRC) Committee on Nutrient       Requirements of Fish and Shrimp.
This Committee was convened for the first       time in 20 years with responsibility to completely update the NRC Bulletin       on Nutrient Requirements of Fish, last produced in 1993.
The NRC Report is       universally regarded throughout the world as the "Gold Standard", and the       new Report "Nutrient Requirements of Fish and Shrimp" was published in       August 2011.
All of the above contributed to the high regard the       aquaculture industry have for the research of the Nutrition Group.
This       resulted in the Group being in great demand to carry out both contract       work and analyses, and the establishment of the Nutrition Analytical       Service (NAS), the highly successful commercial arm of the Nutrition Group       with over 40 customers around the globe and an annual turnover of almost       &#163;0.45 million.
The impact of our work is readily attested by key industrial partners:     "The economic benefits have been far reaching both in reduction of       overall production costs and in facilitating increased growth in this       sector.
As such the research activities of the Nutrition Group, IoA are       greatly valued by the Aquaculture industry"; Global Research Director,       BioMar Ltd.     "More importantly however has been the nutritional knowledge which has       been generated by the IoA Nutrition Group to ensure that eating qualities       and human health benefits of eating oily fish containing n-3 LC-PUFA       remain in place"; Technical Services Manager, Marine Harvest Scotland.
"Skretting ARC are delighted to provide this endorsement of the       outstanding and important contributions that the Nutrition Group, IoA have       made in the development of sustainable aquafeeds and their major positive       impact on the industry in the UK and globally".
Head of Nutrition       Research, Skretting Aquaculture Research Centre.
"The work of the Nutrition Group IoA has had a significant impact on our       ability to replace fish oil in feeds for Atlantic salmon"; Principal       Scientist, EWOS.
