     Fish health and welfare     The vaccines developed and commercialised were to protect salmonids       against Furunculosis, sea bass/bream against Pasteurellosis, catfish       against Edwardsiella ictaluri and carp against Aeromonas         hydrophila.
Field trials have been performed for the latter and       patents filed in the US (12/678,078) and Europe (008806225.2).
Impact is       coroborated by Professor Patrick Smith, founder of the first fish vaccine       company (Aquaculture Vaccine Limited) `University of Stirling has a       pivotal role in the area of aquatic animal health research and its work       over the years has had a major impact on the worldwide aquaculture       industry which is so crucial for future world Food Security programmes'.
Aquatic environment     Use of vaccines led to a dramatic reduction in use of antibiotics in the       late 80s and this has been sustained to the present day with continued       wide-spread use of vaccines in UK and Norway.
Thus, the use of antibiotics       in the salmonid aquaculture industry is very low in comparison to use in       other farmed animals.
Impact on the aquatic environment is again       corroborated by Professor Patrick Smith `....antibiotic usage in       fish farms declined rapidly to the position we are at today where       Norwegian farmed salmon production has reached approximately 800,000       tonnes (a near 7-fold increase) while the usage of antibiotic has declined       to less than 100kg (a near 50-fold reduction)!'.
Commerce     New fish vaccines have been developed and commercialised - this includes       vaccines to prevent Furunculosis, Pasteurellosis with 51.5 million doses       administered in 2012 (&gt;&#163;5m).
The Strategic Marketing Director of MSD       Animal Health confirms `the key role which research and testing         undertaken by the Institute of Aquaculture at University of Stirling has         played in the development of vaccines.......I and my team are directly         involved in commissioning this work for the company'.
The first commercial fish vaccine against Bacillary Necrosis for use in Panagasius       catfish was launched in October 2011 by Pharmaq.
ALPHA JECT Panga 1 was       granted a license in Vietnam in April 2013.
Vaccination and training in       good practice in the vaccination process has been initiated.
Antibodies to fish immunoglobulins have been marketed through Aquatic       Diagnostics Ltd. Impact is confirmed by Professor Brian Dixon, University       of Waterloo, Canada `Indeed, antibodies to fish immunoglobulins for         various species are one commercial product that has emerged from this         line of research, with companies such as Aquatic Diagnostics in         Stirling, Scotland, marketing these.'
Industry has invested in research and development.
Schering Plough       Aquaculture, now MSD Animal Health, have provided &gt;&#163;500,000 in funding       on fish vaccines (1998-2009), while Pharmaq has invested &#163;280,000       (2006-11).
Recently we were awarded &#163;1,390,000 by Zoetis       (Pfizer)/Technology Strategy Board to develop a sea louse vaccine.
Public policy     The position of contributing scientists on key committees and working       groups has ensured transfer of the knowledge generated to industry and       government and has influenced public policy.
For example, Richards is the       veterinary advisor to the Scottish Salmon Producers Organisation and       chairs the Scottish Government Ministerial Group on Sustainable       Aquaculture Working Group on Fish Health.
Adams is a member of the       Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) Aquaculture Health Steering Group, a       multi-stakeholder platform for networking and coordination concerning       sustainable aquaculture between EU and Asia.
She has also recently joined       the Veterinary Medicines Directorate (VMD) Aquaculture Working Group on       control of antibiotic use.
Richards and Adams are also facilitator and       immunology group leader of the European Aquaculture Technology and       Innovation Platform (EATIP) for Fish Health, which sets priorities for       commercially-focused research in aquaculture.
International development     Introduction of the first fish vaccine in Vietnam has benefited fish       health, changed methods of fish husbandry in Vietnam, reduced the use of       antibiotics, and has benefited local people though creation of jobs and       wealth through increased productivity.
Numerous workshops have been       conducted in disease diagnosis, microbiology, immunology and vaccine       development for a wide range of end-users including the scientific       community and farmers in a variety of countries including Chile, China,       Korea, Thailand and Vietnam.
For example, in Vietnam workshops (translated       into Vietnamese and other languages) were given to 1,400 fish farmers and       a diagnostic facility and wet lab were established.
