     Education: Influence on A Level and HE curricula     WJEC: Both Dan Gadarn Goncrit (DGG) [3.3] and Saith         Pechod Marwol (SPM) [3.1] have been taught on WJEC curricula       since 2000 and have continued to feature in WJEC teaching materials since       2008.
DGG is one of three novels included in Unit CY4 of the Welsh       A Level (First Language) qualification studied by 100-120 candidates per         annum.
Many candidates also choose to read the text in preparation       for the synoptic element of Unit CY4.
SPM is also a popular choice       in this element and is also a set text for Welsh A Level (Second       Language): it has been studied by between 450 and 570 students during the       past three years.
Many candidates for AS and GCSE Welsh Literature       also choose to study stories from SPM [5.1].
The WJEC's subject       officer for Welsh explains the context for selecting DGG.
Candidates in south Wales found the northern regional dialect of Un         Nos Ola Leuad alienating, and so Morgan's text was selected to       fulfil the demand amongst candidates for an accessible modern text written       in a regional dialect of south Wales.
SPM was likewise selected       for its newness and for the accessibility of its linguistic register       [5.1].
WJEC handbooks for its Welsh A Level qualifications set out the       general criteria for the inclusion of texts and authors:     `...Welsh is a subject which requires candidates to consider spiritual,       moral, ethical, social and cultural issues while reading, studying and       discussing a wide range of Welsh literature ... By encompassing a wide       range of contemporary poetry (CA3, CA6), the work of the dramatist       Saunders Lewis (CA4), the authors Mihangel Morgan and Ioan Kidd (CA5) and       the film Hedd Wyn (CA1) ... a work programme is presented which will       strengthen and enhance candidates' awareness of the Welsh language's role       ... in an European context.'
[5.2]     The success with which candidates achieve these aims in relation to       Morgan's work can be heard on two CDs provided by the WJEC that exemplify       best practice for Unit CY4.
Students demonstrate a sophisticated level of       understanding of the following concepts, as a result of reading DGG:       social decline, morality, Anglicisation of Welsh culture, realism and       postmodernism [5.3].
Teaching in another HEI in Wales: Morgan's work has influenced the       form and content of HEI curricula in Wales, specifically for its value as       a pedagogic tool for exploring postmodernism in Welsh literature.
At the       School of Welsh, Cardiff University, Digon o Fwydod, has been part       of an undergraduate module on literary theory and criticism (CY3321;       2012-13) [5.4], and Dirgel Ddyn and TGF were taught on a       module on contemporary prose in 2008-09 (CY3951) [5.5].
The coordinator of       learning and teaching explains the rationale for including Morgan's work:     `Mihangel Morgan's work was selected as he is acknowledged as one of the       main prose writers of the present century.
His poetry is studied on the       module CY3321 partly because of the use he makes of postmodern techniques.
His work is studied on the Contemporary Prose module CY3410 [2013-14] in       order to discuss his use of narrative techniques, including those       associated with postmodernism' (translated from Welsh) [5.4]       Morgan's work is also on the lifelong learning course for adult learners       (January 2013) [5.6].
Cultural Life and Public Discourse     Morgan's transition from `intriguing newcomer' to a recognized `Classic'       writer and `Welsh icon' are attested in a radio programme (`Clasuron &#8212;       Straeon Mihangel Morgan' BBC Radio Cymru 2008-08- 17) and also online       [5.7].
In terms of creativity, the novelist Owen Martell (tutored by       Morgan on the Creative Writing module in the Department of Welsh) has       recognised his debt to Morgan in a feature in The Telegraph       (11/01/2013) [5.8].
The impact of Morgan's work can also be measured in       terms of book sales in Wales: most of his titles are commercially       successful for his publisher, Y Lolfa.
A representative of Y Lolfa states       that `Mihangel's sales are higher than is usual for books of their kind'       and `Mihangel's short stories also sell much more than volumes of stories       by other authors' (translated from Welsh) [5.9].
Morgan's work has elicited responses from a varied readership.
Individual       reviewers attest the subjective effect of his fiction upon them.
One       reviewer recognised the newness of the subject matter of Pantglas       in the contemporary Welsh literary canon: `Without a doubt, here is a       unique novel that deals with a difficult and sensitive subject with       respect and imagination.
Once again, Mihangel Morgan has managed to fill a       void in our literature, and to widen the horizons of the Welsh novel'       (translated from Welsh) [5.10].
A student at Poznan University, reviewing       Kate Roberts a'r Ystlum for Golwg360 in 2012, demonstrates       an enhanced understanding of the intertextual dimension of Morgan's work       and the depth of the research underpinning his fiction [5.11].
Simliarly,       a blogger noted the personal literary echoes that she perceived in       Morgan's work whilst reviewing Christopher Meredith's English translation       of Melog [5.12].
One reviewer also understood the impact of Pantglas       in generating awareness of the forgotten history of Llanwddyn: he is       quoted on the Welsh Book Council's website: `As far as I know, this       is the first time ever that the history of drowning the valley has been       used as the basis of a Welsh novel.
But the novel is so much more than       that too.
It testifies to the way in which Welsh communities were exploded       and exploited during the past century and a half (translated from Welsh)       [5.14].
Blog Glyn Adda (7/05/2012) stresses the newness of information in       Kate Roberts a'r Ystlum and how its alternative readings force       readers to reconsider their received opinion of familiar characters and       events [5.14].
The editorial team underwent this very experience during       the production process of Kate Roberts a'r Ystlum: `several of       Mihangel's inspiring and different portraits of some of the big names in       Welsh literature had changed our image of them' (translated from Welsh)       [5.9].
Morgan's fiction has been popular with a variety of reading groups       throughout Wales.
Pantglas featured on reading lists in Wales,       London and Patagonia.
The blog of a London reading group attests its       impact on their understanding of the Victorian dam-building project and       also the later, more politically sensitive project at Tryweryn in 1965;       they compared the novel with books on Tryweryn and discussed the different       mindset of the novels' Victorian setting [5.15].
Further afield, two       reading groups in Patagonia read Pantglas: Gaiman (6 members) and       Trelew (4 members).
The coordinator notes that the novel gave readers `a       different view' of the history of Welsh reservoirs that extended beyond       the familiar political narratives of Tryweryn and Cwm Celyn: `as we read       the novel our understanding of the situation was deepened' (translated       from Welsh) [5.16].
The related blog also reveals that the Gwentian       dialect was a challenging new experience for members of these reading       groups [5.17].
