     As an internationally leading expert on radiological protection of the       environment, Copplestone has been appointed to Committee 5 (Environmental       Protection) of the International Commission on Radiological Protection       (ICRP).
The ICRP helps to prevent cancer and other diseases and effects       associated with exposure to ionising radiation and to protect the       environment.
The ICRP developed and maintains the International System of       Radiological Protection used world-wide as the common basis for       radiological protection standards, legislation, guidelines, programmes and       practice.
Copplestone drafted new recommendations on environmental       protection which have been translated by the International Atomic Energy       Agency into the International Basic Safety Standards.
Being extensively involved in the development of radiological risk       assessment tools for wildlife, Copplestone is a technical expert for the       International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) technical cooperation projects       for Eastern Europe (over the last three years), and has been invited to       advise on environmental impact assessment from nuclear power plants to       Malaysia from September 2012.
Furthermore, for the last three years       Copplestone has been involved jointly with the Centre for Ecology and       Hydrology and Institut de Radioprotection et de S&#251;ret&#233; Nucl&#233;aire in France       to provide training courses on radiological protection of the environment       tools and techniques as part of a NERC funded knowledge exchange       programme.
This was extended in 2012 to two training courses in Australia       at the request of the Australian uranium mining industry who are just       introducing environmental protection into their assessment requirements.
Copplestone has also been instrumental in setting up international       databases on the environmental transfer of radionuclides to wildlife (the       Wildlife Transfer database) and the biological effects of ionising       radiation on wildlife (FREDERICA).
These databases are currently hosted       online by Stirling and available for free to any interested parties and       are being used in compilations of data such as the UNSCEAR (United Nations       Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation) 2011 biological       effects on non- human species review and the International Atomic Energy       Agency's technical report series (in press) on radionuclide transfer to       wildlife and the International Commission on Radiological Protection       (ICRP) publication 114 on radionuclide transfer to the ICRPs reference       animals and plants.
Copplestone continues to provide technical expert input to national and       international committees (e.g.
Oslo-Paris Convention for the North-East       Atlantic on behalf of the Department of Energy &amp; Climate Change and       Defra; IAEA Action Plan on Environmental Protection on behalf of UK; cross       government department review of the revision of (International and       European) Basic Safety Standards for radiological protection on behalf of       the Environment Agency and SEPA).
Recognised for the expertise in environmental gamma ray spectrometry and       dosimetry, Tyler was appointed to Dounreay Particle Advisory Group to       provide expert advice to Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) and       the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (now Dounreay Site Restoration       Ltd) on the radioactive hot particle issue in 2000 (ending in 2009) -       resulting in significant improvements in the on/offshore monitoring       programme for particle abundance important in assessing the hazard and       risk to human health.
This was in response to a request to SEPA by the       Secretary of State for Scotland and the work fed directly into SEPA's       regulatory requirements within Dounreay's site licence.
In 2009 he was       appointed to the Particle Recovery Advisory Group (Dounreay), advising       SEPA and Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd on the on/offshore particle       recovery programme and strategy, resulting in 1248 particles being       recovered offshore using Remotely Operated Vehicle technology.
In 2011,       Tyler was appointed to the Dalgety Bay Particle Advisory Group advising       SEPA on the Ra-226 monitoring and hazard.
Now recognised as one of the       UK's experts on hot particles he has been working with Sellafield Ltd to       provide advice on the statistical interpretation and monitoring strategies       to be employed in relation to the hot particles on Cumbrian beaches to       establish optimal monitoring strategies.
The ERL is now well established       and embedded within the SEPA's R&amp;D framework, supporting key       regulatory activities and helping SEPA to check for regulatory escape.
Our       work has been critical in providing the evidence base for SEPA to       interpret the UK's radioactively contaminated land regulations for       enforcement work at Dalgety Bay.
In London 2008, as the UK expert Tyler was elected to convene the       International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) working Group (Nuclear       Instrumentation Subcommittee 45B-Environmental Radiation Protection) and       was project leader for the international standards on mobile monitoring       (IEC 62438) and in-situ gamma spectrometry (IEC 61725) instrumentation       (with meetings in Paris 2008, Yokohama 2009, Seattle 2010, Las Vegas 2011,       Karlsruhe 2012, and Moscow 2013).
This has resulted in IEC technical       standards that all manufacturers adhere to in the construction, technical       specification and environmental tollerances of equipment used for       environmental radioactivity measurement, monitoring and dosimetry.
In 2012       Tyler was invited to chair National Committee 2 of the British Standards       Institute (BSI), reviewing ISO and IEC standards for Radiation Protection       to establish their suitability for the UK and inclusion by the BSI.
