     The AND has had an impact on three major groups: professional bodies, the       media, and the public.
This is a direct corollary of the authority which       the Dictionary has acquired, and this could only have been achieved by       demonstrably producing work which meets the highest standards of       international lexicographical practice.
The AND's impact is international.
We know, for example, from analysis of       the visitors to the website that there are hits from all around the world,       and not only for the main Dictionary itself.
Usage statistics indicate       that (e.g.
for the period November 2010-October 2011) the `non-specialist'       part of the site (see section (2) above) attracted on average 300 visits       per month, with over 200 pages being viewed per week by users from 22       countries: the most common sources of enquiries being the UK and USA (43%       between them), followed by the Russian Federation (16%), France (13%),       Italy (5%), Germany (5%), Netherlands (3%).
Search strings used include:       anglo-norman words in england; anglo norman in west yorkshire; chaucer       vocabulary; dialects of shropshire; hedgehog scots dialect; pears in       comfyt; scottish word vennel; water [sic] scott ivanhoe middle       english food words like beef cow; westmorland slang; why did chaucer ride       [sic] in english; worcester doss house; anglo-norman words still       used today.
Our dissemination policy has always been one of maximum accessibility and       we have aimed to make it easy for professional bodies and members of the       public to benefit from our work.
The site is exceptionally easy to use.
Information regarding the AND was distributed to an archivists' discussion       list on 16 March 2010 (5.3), with the express aim of generating awareness       of the Dictionary amongst these professional users.
Trotter has also been involved in various media activities: he was       interviewed on 16 May 2006 by Radio 4's Making History (5.4), by BBC Wales       in June 2004 (5) and again in February 2008 (5.6), and by the Today       programme, following the announcement of the opening to the public of the       AND site.
WalesOnline registered the Prix Honor&#233; Chav&#233;e in 2011 (5.7).
Trotter's related public activities have included: making an audio       recording of an excerpt of the Chanson de Roland for an       audiovisual display at Battle Abbey Museum; supplying a translation and       reading of an Anglo-Norman document describing the death of Llywelyn ap       Gruffudd in 1282 for the National Museum of Wales's `Voices from Medieval       Wales' (5.8); involvement as an invited expert for a National Geographic       `Mystery Files' film made in Venice in 2010 and shown in the UK in June       2011 (5.9).
Members of the public are clearly aware of the AND and have often &#8212; after       using the Dictionary - addressed supplementary enquiries to the editors.
In November 2010, the Vice-Chancellor and Librarian of Lincoln Cathedral       enquired about a word in a 1319 Lincoln will (5.10).
April 2011, the       Curator of European Arms and Armour at Glasgow's Kelvingrove Art Gallery       wrote to ask about the etymology of jazerant (a form of padded       tunic-cum-armour) and remains in contact over other lexical queries       (5.11).
We also receive a steady trickle of enquiries from members of the       public, in particular interested in their family names where these appear       to be of Anglo-Norman origin.
With the advent of the `Pathways to Impact' element within AHRC grants,       the project is committed to developing its impact-generating activities       over the period 2012-2016.
An article about the impact of Anglo-Norman on       English place-names has been submitted to English Today, and a       blog with a `word of the month' has been set up (http://anglonormandictionary.blogspot.co.uk/).
Within the commercial dictionary world, finally, the AND is regularly       drawn on by the OED.
Its revision clearly takes account of our findings       and incorporates them in its discussion of etymologies.
We are thus making       a direct and measurable impact on the world's leading dictionary of       English, itself a reference-work widely used by non-academic users.
