     Dr Hammel has integrated the findings of the Kindertransport 1938/39: New       Perspectives project       into different interdisciplinary frameworks and has engaged with a wide       variety of different       audiences in the UK and internationally.
Discussing the topic of the Kindertransport in different       interdisciplinary contexts as well as with       different stakeholder groups is an important way to support and challenge       processes of       commemoration, memorialisation and reconciliation.
Below are examples of       impact aimed at       different groups:     4.1 Stakeholder group: the Jewish community:       In February 2011, Andrea Hammel gave a public talk together with former       Kindertransportee Ruth       David at the Wiener Library London on David's memoirs (related to 3.3).
The audience of ca.
50       people consisted mainly of members of the Jewish community and other       members of the general       public.
The discussion focussed on the Kindertransport, memoir writing and       translating life stories.
It sparked a lively debate between academics and stakeholders about       authenticity and memory.
4.2 Stakeholder: an individual Kindertransportee: In November       2011, Andrea Hammel acted as a       consultant for a memoir project by former Kindertransportee Susi Bech&#246;fer.
They discussed       Bech&#246;fer's life story as well as her personal archival material in view of       commonly held       assumptions regarding Kindertransport stories.
Bech&#246;fer's story is an       extraordinary one and it has       been appropriated outside her control several times.
Hammel advised on a       suitable co-writer for       such an autobiographical project.
4.3 Stakeholder group: the general public: In March 2012, Hammel       organized a talk by former       Kindertransportee William Dieneman at Aberystwyth University as well as       the exhibition `Double       Exposure: Jewish Refugees from Austria in Britain' at the Aberystwyth Arts       Centre.
The talk       attracted an audience of over 100 people and the special viewing attracted       over 80 participants       and a subsequent feedback questionnaire showed the positive impact of this       venture on a diverse       audience ranging in age from 9 to 83.
The above event featured in the       digital media and in the       local newspaper, the Cambrian News ('Jewish man who fled the Nazis to talk       about his       experiences', Thursday, 15 March 2012, Cambrian News; 5.2).
Feedback       questionnaires       confirmed that this event changed the thinking of audience members of       various ages relating to       migration and refugees as well as refugees and the history of the 1930s       and 1940s: `I think that       stories like this are relevant today as they indicate both how Britain has       a long tradition of taking       refugees in and how refugees make a contribution to British life (Male,       46); `Made me consider the       different types of immigration and that they are a lot of immigrants that       don't fit the stereotypes'       (Female, 39) (5.6).
The town community of Aberystwyth clearly appreciated this opportunity to       discuss these issues as       there are not at the forefront of cultural life of the town, but it became       clear that they are still       significant for the audience.
In January 2013, Hammel gave a talk on the       Kindertransport at the       Aberystwyth Branch of the University of the Third Age (U3A).
Feedback       questionnaires show that       the talk inspired many members of the audience to think about their own       experiences during World       War 2.
A number of them remembered contacts with former refugees and       Kindertransportees: `I       found the talk very interesting, particularly as I have had friends who       came to the UK by train as       refugees.'
(5.4).
They also stated that it provided new knowledge (`The       lecture widened my       understanding of the pre-war, post-war period.'
5.4) and inspired some       participants to do further       research (the talk `made me want to learn more and read new information'       5.4).
In July 2013 Dr Hammel gave a presentation to a group of 16 to 18-year       olds taking Sociology and       Psychology AS level at Penglais Secondary School in Aberystwyth to enhance       their learning       experience in relation to issues of childhood, attachment and separation:       `Andrea's talk provided       [the students] with a prompt to consider and empathise with the suffering       of others [...] I have no       doubt that her talk made a significant impact and will use it as a       reference point throughout the       year.'
(5.5).
4.4 Stakeholder group: Kindertransportees and their descendants,         mainly USA: Hammel was       invited to give a keynote presentation at the Conference of the North       American Kindertransport       Association (KTA) in November 2012 in Los Angeles.
The North American KTA       is an organisation       of former child refugees and their descendants and the event was attended       by over 130 people       (5.7).
This presentation was followed by a workshop co-facilitated by       Hammel in which ca.
40       participants were able to discuss points made in the presentation and       raise questions' There is       email and social media evidence that the talk had a profound effect on a       number of participants:       `your presentation was most informative, and helped me as a Kind Second       Generation understand       the path that my mother travelled from Cologne to England in 1938.'
(5.3)     Hammel's research finding regarding the differing intentions of the       parents in Continental Europe       and the UK government received attention from the audience after the       presentation.
During the       workshop the question of how the children for the transports were chosen       sparked lively debate       (5.8).
4.5 Stakeholder group: Kindertransportees and their descendants,         mainly UK: In June 2013 the       findings of the Kindertransport 1938/39: New Perspectives project were       presented at the       Kindertransport Symposium in London.
This event was part of the       Association of Jewish Refugee's       commemoration events celebrating the 75th anniversary of the       Kindertransport.
The event was       attended by 97 people of varying ages and the question of Kindertransport       stories and the       ownership of the narrative sparked lively and extensive discussions (5.6).
It is thus clear that the Kindertransport: New Perspectives project       challenged processes of       commemoration, memorialisation and reconciliation within a number of       different stakeholder       groups by presenting new research findings at public events in the UK and       the US.
The lively       debates encountered at these events shows that the Kindertransport remains       highly topical in the       21st century.
