     Professor Davidson responded to a Scottish Government Consultation Paper       in 2008 on the case       for significant new legislation on arbitration in Scotland and a draft       Arbitration (Scotland) Bill (see       section 5, para.1 below for official citation): the consultation process       continued until December       2008.
During this process, he developed and articulated his view that       Scotland should withdraw       from the UNCITRAL Model Law in considerable detail in the underpinning       research.
Professor Davidson was invited to meet the Scottish Government team       drafting the Bill (which       eventually became the Arbitration (Scotland) Act 2010) both individually       and as part of an expert       group in late 2008 (see section 5 below).
After the consultation process       had ended, he was, in May       2009, subsequently part of a group that met the Scottish Government       Minister for the Economy to       discuss the Bill, and gave oral evidence to the Economy, Energy and       Tourism Committee of the       Scottish Parliament as part of the formal law-making process by the       Parliament (Reference 5.3       below).
Professor Davidson's advice to the Scottish Government Bill team       and the Minister, and his       evidence to the Scottish Parliament was distinctly and materially based on       the arguments       articulated by him in the underpinning research.
As explained above, one of the key decisions for the Scottish Government       and Parliament was       whether to base the Act around the UNCITRAL Model Law on International       Commercial Arbitration       or to start with a clean slate.
In developing its thinking on its adoption       of the latter approach, the       Scottish Government cited Professor Davidson's views.
Although the       Scottish Government       introduced him in its report as the author of the SULI textbook on       arbitration, it is important for       impact measurement purposes to be aware that Professor Davidson's       substantive argument on the       key point at issue &#8212; which was then expanded upon by the Scottish       Government &#8212; was first       developed by him in his underpinning research.
Indeed, this is very       clearly evidenced by the fact       that the quotation of Professor Davidson in the Scottish Government report       set out below is taken       directly from p.46 of the underpinning research:     "Professor Fraser Davidson of Stirling University who is the author of       the Scottish University Law       Institute textbook on arbitration said that the Model Law "does not       provide a comprehensive       arbitration regime.
It is thus much better to look to the example of       states such as England which       used the Model Law as the basis for the creation of a comprehensive,       modern arbitration statute.
Little will be lost by Scotland ceasing to be known as a country which has       adopted the Model Law.
Its adoption has not seen significant numbers of international       arbitrations attracted to Scotland."
He       concluded: "If Scotland is going to attract international       arbitrations....being able to boast an       effective, comprehensive, modern arbitration statute is going to be more       of an incentive than being       one of a large number of states across the globe which has adopted the       Model Law."
(Reference       5.4 below).
Professor Davidson's views, as articulated in the underpinning research,       were also cited very       prominently and with approval by the Minister when closing the debate on       the Bill before the       Scottish Parliament on 18 November 2009 (Reference 5.5 below).
The       Minister said:     "Scots law has tended to feature mainly as an example of how not to do       things, but Professor       Fraser Davidson has suggested that, with the advent of the bill, the focus       has switched to Scotland       as a beacon for the future .... Let us hope that Professor Davidson's       words are prophetic and the       use of arbitration at home increases markedly as a result of the reforms       and modernisation that the       bill has introduced.
We hope that, as a result, more international       arbitration work will be attracted to       Scotland and we will see a renaissance of Scottish arbitration.
I commend       the bill to members."
The provision of specialist evidence by Professor Davidson to the       Scottish Government and the       Scottish Parliament's Economy and Tourism Committee in connection with the       Arbitration       (Scotland) Bill was underpinned by his research.
As is clear from the       above quotations and the       sources cited below it impacted on: policy-making by the Scottish       Government; the scrutiny and       law-making processes of the Scottish Parliament; and the development of a       new legal framework       to facilitate domestic and international commercial dispute resolution in       Scotland.
Professor       Davidson's research therefore had an impact beyond academia by informing       and enriching public       policy development and law-making in Scotland.
