     The research of the African Ecology Group has led to a growing       recognition in governments and donor bodies of the imperative need to       manage hunting in Central Africa, to protect the rural livelihoods,       species and ecosystem function of the second largest rainforest on the       planet.
It also provides strategies for best practices in sustainable       hunting management and practical tools for governments and managers to       assess success.
To ensure true impacts from the original research, the       group secured funding for capacity-building within Gabon.
The group       received support via the UK Darwin Initiative for this section of work       (2003-2009) and matched funds from the US and Gabonese governments.
The       wider Stirling research group now includes researchers in Gabon and UK,       ensuring that research is delivered directly to policy makers and is       understood by staff within management groups.
The group has been able to       use research results to argue successfully for: the creation in 2009 of an       intergovernment committee on hunting reform; new protected species lists,       using data from hunting and trade were issued in 2010; and the promotion       of the Wildlife Department to a higher status within government in 2011.
Anne Marie Ndong Obiang, whose research was supported by Stirling (Darwin       Initiative award 162/12/002), was the nominated focal point for Gabon at       CITES, responsible for hunting issues.
She is now senior staff in Gabon's       National Park service, providing legacy from this educational mentoring.
Stirling has signed MOU agreements with the national research authority       (CENAREST, 2009) and National Parks Agency (ANPN, 2011) in Gabon to       provide research advice and ensure excellence in scientific approach to       this subject.
Research results are regularly provided to other       stakeholders as French language technical reports and advisory services.
Wider societal impacts from the research began in 2008 as a direct result       of a national workshop on legislation for governance of the bushmeat       trade, led by the group at Stirling.
As a result of this workshop the       cross-ministerial committee for the National Strategy for Sustainable       Bushmeat Management requested the Stirling group to report on the state of       the industry, including recommendations for legal revision and guidelines       for sustainable food security and wildlife conservation, especially of       globally threatened species for which Gabon may determine the survival of       the species.
Abernethy was also invited to: 1.
Contribute to the       assessment of UK government policy on the issue, which led to the creation       of the Congo Basin Forest Fund by Gordon Brown in 2008 (Brown, Fa &amp;       Gordon, 2008; see section 5d); 2.
Join the UK Bushmeat working group,       allowing data from Gabon to be taken into account in UK policy; 3.
Join       the regional TRAFFIC hunting working group, contributing up to date       knowledge on animal meat trade to TRAFFIC programs and contributing `live'       data to a public access forum (SYst&#232;me de suivi de la fili&#232;re Viande de         Brousse en Afrique Centrale); 4.
Evaluate WWF hunting policy       projects in Cameroon and DRC, enabling the group's expertise to support of       one of the largest NGO's in the region; and 5.
Advise FAO on regional       resource management projects (i.e.
GEF Project/ GCP/ RAF/441/GER),       ensuring that research underpins UN agency practice on the ground.
University of Stirling staff participated in the CBD Secretariat       evaluation of the bushmeat harvest impacts, ensuring that policies are       evidence-based, and that consequences of policies on wildlife are       understood.
Research carried out at the University's field site in Gabon       supported independent direct monitoring of wildlife to define the status       of unhunted populations and create baselines for comparison with hunted       populations.
This greatly improved the evaluation of sustainability in       hunted populations.
The wide consultation of research staff on all aspects       of the bushmeat industry ensures reach and influence from the research       into civil society.
In 2010, the synthesis and strategy document for bushmeat management in       Gabon, co-authored by University of Stirling and Gabon's Wildlife       Department, was adopted by the Ministry of Water and Forests (Abernethy       &amp; Obiang Ndong, 2010).
Today, Abernethy is a current member of Gabon's       National Committee for Non-Timber Forest Product management, run by the       Prime Minister's office; committee member for the National Strategy on       Bushmeat management (Wildlife Department); expert advisor on environment       to the First Lady of Gabon and a member of the UK Bushmeat working group.
Several of the group (Tutin, Abernethy, White and Maisels) are members of       the IUCN Species Survival Commission.
This leadership in developing and       modernising policy represents an opportunity to preserve wildlife       populations of key species of global significance.
Research by group       members and others shows that Gabon is home to the majority of remaining       forest elephants, leatherback turtles, humpback whales, mandrills, lowland       gorillas and common chimps, as well as harbouring other endemic primate       species.
Gabon has international recognition as a leader in Africa for       conservation planning and environmental performance       (http://www.epi.yale.edu/epi2012/rankings),       and it is likely that initiatives that are successful in Gabon will be       adopted in other countries, as was the case in the gazetting of National       Parks in 2002, which led to declarations of new protected areas in       Cameroon and Congo.
In line with recommendations for sustainable       governance of resources, Gabon was the first country in the world to       ratify the CBD `Protocol of Nagoya' in 2011, for better governance of       biological resources and associated traditional knowledge.
Abernethy       currently advises Gabon's Department of Environment on pilot work to       ensure excellence in the governance framework being put in place.
