     A rapid assessment of the impact of the introduction and testing of       decentralised seed production       (DSP) was initiated 3 years after the initial field work conducted in       1999.
A radial study to assess       secondary adoption within 3 km of one of the research communities, in       which 4 households had       originally participated, found that a total of 120 households in more than       20 communities were now       engaged in the practice.
On the strength of the early success, an       International non-governmental       organisation (CARE) mainstreamed the inclusion of tilapia as a component       of a project       (commencing in 2001) working to promote innovations in rice field       management based in 150       communities over 3 seasons in a different area of NWB.
The main societal impacts, however, have occurred more recently through       further scaling up (e.g.
5.1) and after recommendations arising from this work were incorporated       into curricula for Farmer       Field Schools promoting the practice.
A subsequent analysis of adoption in       20 communities       sampled from this broader group found that although the area of the       ricefield used and access to       tilapia broodfish were critical, a large range of ecological and complex       socio-cultural factors were       responsible for its adoption or rejection by farming households (5.2).
Key       differences were found       between primary and secondary adoption; primary adopters (i.e.
those to       whom DSP has been       directly extended) tended to be poorer and the benefits invested in       immediate consumption       (purchase of food, education etc), whereas secondary adopters tended to       invest in longer term       assets (e.g.
land).
More than 80% of households found that the technology       supported the basic       food needs of household members, particularly women, children and the       elderly.
There was an       important temporal aspect of the benefits delivered by the approach, since       fish consumed and       income provided for households occurred during the `hungry gap'; DSP can       be regarded as a       coping mechanism for households' seasonal vulnerability.
An important       impact was the       development of networks among seed producers and fry traders that       reinforced the adoption       process.
It was also found that adoption was not constrained by illiteracy       of the household head,       the size or ownership status of ponds, or lack of ownership of land or an       irrigation pump.
Poorer       and intermediate households had smaller ricefield (RF) plots and lower       production of fingerlings       (kg/household) compared to the better-off, however, their production       efficiency (kg/ha) was higher.
Restocking of RF-produced fingerlings increased household pond       productivity by 60% over non-RF       households.
As a result, better-off RF households increased their fish       consumption (by 50%)       compared to non-RF.
Poorer households reduced dependence on the market for       meeting their fish       consumption, particularly during months of low availability of wild fish.
The importance of income       flows from fingerling sales were also linked to seasonality, especially       for poor households.
Complementarity of DSP to the core household activity was demonstrated;       the production of rice in       the irrigated season and income in both seasons was much higher in seed       producing ricefields       compared to other ricefields (RF and non-RF).
Breeding and nursing tilapia       in hapas has also been       promoted by follow-on extension projects among ethnic minority groups       marginalized from       mainstream society that are particularly dependent on fish as food.
Research on impact (5.3) found       that beneficiaries, mainly women, gained in terms of income and food       security through cage culture       and roles trading fish generated through promotion of DSP.
On the basis of these demonstrated key improvements of poor livelihoods,       DSP was established       as an effective pro-poor innovation that could be established in rural       areas.
It then spread       organically, and an extension programme, designed and funded to support       further scaling up,       resulted in the inclusion of 20,000 households in different contexts       throughout NWB in partnership       with a range of local partners (5.4).
The key demonstrated outcomes of       this initiative broadly       mirrored the findings of the detailed assessment of impacts presented       above.
A more detailed       understanding of upstream and downstream impacts emerged in this larger       project where chains of       micro-entrepreneurs were established as an outcome of the programme       leading to more diversified       and sustainable impacts on livelihoods.
It was found that the use of       satellite broodstock-rearers,       established to support sustained and productive DSP adopters, was an       effective strategy and       niche for better off farmers with perennial water sources.
The impacts on       one of poorest groups in       NWB communities (i.e.
seasonal, often land-less fingerling traders) were       also positive with their       involvement in marketing juvenile tilapia increasing throughout the       project period (5.5).
The beneficial socio-economic impacts on poor people have been       established but a further study       identified important and positive environmental impacts.
Biswas (5.6)       identified reductions in       reported use of pesticides not only among rice fish adopters but also       non-adopters in the same       community.
Across the NWB region this would constitute an important       environmental benefit.
There has been institutional take up by a wide range of Government and       Non-Government field-level       implementers in the NWB and mainstreaming of DS into their regular       field-level programmes .
These organisations include the Department of Fisheries 5.7), and       non-governmental       organisations Caritas and Practical Action (5.1).
WorldFish, a member of       the Consultative Group       on International Agricultural Research has mainstreamed the approach in       Bangladesh and in other       countries in Asia and Africa for contexts that have similar       agro-ecosystems through published       manuals (5.8) and incorporation into other projects such as the Adivashi       Project focusing on       marginalised tribal communities (5.3, 5.9, 5.10).
