     In the autumn of 2009 public health officials in the United Kingdom were       faced with an emerging influenza A H1N1 pandemic with the potential to       overwhelm the NHS.
One of the most effective methods of controlling the       pandemic was likely to be immunisation of children (the `super-spreaders'       of influenza), however there was an almost complete absence of paediatric       data on the two vaccines available in the UK7.
The Oxford Vaccine Group's rapid provision of reactogenicity and       immunogenicity data on the two novel Influenza A H1N1 vaccines to the       Joint Committee for Immunisation and Vaccination (JCVI) and Department of       Health therefore had a profound impact on the immunisation policy for the       2009-2010 influenza A H1N1 pandemic.
Specifically, data from an interim       analysis on the rates of systemic and local reactions to immunisation were       provided to the JCVI in mid-November, and gave reassurance that concerns       regarding theoretical risks of high rates of febrile convulsions with       these vaccines were unfounded8,9.
These data were a key element in this committee's subsequent       recommendation to the Department of Health that an influenza vaccine be       offered to all children less than 5 years of age10.
By February       2010, 518,000 children had received an influenza A H1N1 vaccine, with       immunisation uptake rates in children varying from 23.6% in England to       44.6% in Scotland11.
Almost all of these received the       split-virion vaccine, with the whole-virion vaccine being reserved for       those with an egg allergy.
Although it is not possible to precisely determine the effect of the       immunisation campaign on reducing childhood disease and community spread       of the influenza A H1N1 virus, a single dose of the split-virion vaccine       was found to be 77% (95% C.I.
11% to 94%) effective in preventing       influenza infection in children aged 0- 9 years12.
While 70       children died as a result of influenza A H1N1 between June 2009 and March       2010 in England13, only two of these had been immunised,       however, as deaths occurred within 48 hours of immunisation these were not       considered vaccine failures.
It is arguable that without the expedited       influenza A H1N1 study, immunisation rates in children would have been       considerably lower with a resultant increase in the paediatric disease       burden.
The study received extensive coverage in local and national media14,         15, 16, and its high media profile provided very public evidence       that determining the side-effect profile of the vaccines was an important       aspect of the Department of Health's pandemic influenza strategy.
Data on       vaccine reactogenicity and immunogenicity was important not only in       informing the national immunisation strategy, but also in providing an       evidence base for clinicians in their discussions regarding immunisation       with parents.
As a result of this research parents could be reassured that       rates of fever after a single dose of split-virus vaccine were low, and       that no unexpected reactions had been observed.
