     Gearty's research impacted on the content of the Counter-Terrorism Act       2008 so as to integrate it within the traditional (i.e., human       rights-oriented) model of the criminal law.
The research has shaped the       substance of anti-terrorism law and been of especial benefit to those       citizens whose fair treatment within the criminal justice system has       depended upon parliament enacting counter-terrorism legislation which       takes proper account of human rights norms.
The research which Gearty has produced in connection with the Human       Rights and Terrorism project (beginning with 2007a) is premised on the       proposition that counter-terrorist activities &#8212; e.g.
interrogation and       detention procedures and the gathering of intercept evidence &#8212; should, no       less than alleged terrorist activities, be governed by the rules of       criminal procedure.
In 2008, he used the ESRC funding awarded to the       project in order to organize the seminar series outlined in section 2.
Once the series was completed, he produced a report (2008b) setting out       his and other participants' arguments for counter-terrorism legislation       based on criminal law norms.
Gearty's writing of the report coincided with       parliament debating the Counter-Terrorism Bill (afterwards Act) 2008.
At       this point, he sent 2008b - along with 2007d (setting out the arguments in       summarized form) &#8212; to various members of parliament, the press and the       media.
The project has had a direct impact on the content of the       Counter-Terrorism Act (section 5, source 4).
The recommendations for legal       reform which emerged from the seminars are reflected in those parts of the       Act which make the criminal process central to counter-terrorist       strategies &#8212; in particular at ss 22 (post-charge questioning), 25       (recording of interviews), 26 (issue and revision of code of practice),       Part 3 (`Prosecution and Punishment of Terrorist Offences'), and ss 76, 77       (new terrorist offences triable under ordinary law).
Gearty provides       details (at 2008b: 28-30) of the "many features" of the counter-terrorism       legislation which were first recommended at the seminars.
He also notes       that a likely downstream effect of the research is further reform of the       law relating to intercept evidence:     "The terrorism laws are now unrecognisable from the slim, temporary       emergency measure introduced by Home Secretary Roy Jenkins in November       1974....
The government has now decided to proceed with further       investigations into the viability of [intercept evidence in criminal       prosecution for terrorism and terrorism-related offences] ... as long as       certain basic safeguards can be effectively implemented.... [T]he criminal       law orientation of counter-terrorism law would be given a further boost by       the change."
(Gearty 2008b: 28-30)     That the project, and Gearty's research in particular, impacted on the       thinking of those responsible for ensuring that parliament introduced new       counter-terrorism legislation is attested to by some of the relevant       actors (section 5, source 5).
The Human Rights and Terrorism project       seminars and debate were attended by a former Home Secretary, the then       senior security adviser at No.
10 Downing Street, a high-ranking security       adviser to the then Prime Minister, and others drawn from law, academia       and the civil service.
Evidence of how the seminars influenced the       thinking of senior government officials can be found in feedback provided       by participants.
One participant, the then Director of Public       Prosecutions, Lord Macdonald, writes:     "working with Professor Gearty, attending one of his seminars in the       national security series and reading the report that he produced ...       helped me both to frame and to justify the perspective that I took as a       senior law officer on these matters.
This was all the more important to me       because of the difficult security situation that we faced as prosecutors       during my time in office."
(Section 5, source 2.)
Similarly, Matt Cavanagh, the then Prime Minister's special adviser on       security and a seminar attendee, writes that "[f]rom 2003 to 2010 I worked       as a special adviser to a number of ministers &#8212; David Blunkett as Home       Secretary, Des Browne as Defence Secretary, and Gordon Brown.... [Gearty's       seminars] ... were more balanced than was typical of the time, allowing       the perspective of government officials and ministers to be represented       without losing any independence or critical rigour....
The effect ... was       [to ensure that] government thinking on [terrorism was] less insular, and       to inform and improve government decision making &#8212; including having an       impact on the content of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008, which was being       formulated while the seminars were in progress.... [T]he emphasis on using       the criminal process for terrorist suspects wherever possible, which is       evident in that Act, reflected the influence of the seminar series in       general and Gearty's own work in particular".
(Section 5, source 1.)
Why the impact matters.
But for Gearty's research having had the       impact demonstrated in this study, criminal law procedural principles are       unlikely to have been incorporated into the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 in       the way that they now are, and so defendants in cases of alleged       terrorism, not being tried according to the criminal law burden of proof,       would be less well protected.
