     On the strength of his previous research on the subject, Collins was       commissioned by Consumer Focus to write a research paper on how a private       right of redress might be enacted and what the benefits of such       legislation might be (both as regards adequate redress and the reform of       the confused and outdated common law regarding misrepresentation, duress       and undue influence).
Consumer Focus relied heavily on the legal analysis       in Collins's 2009 research paper in their own report, Waiting to be         Heard: Giving Consumers the right of redress over Unfair Commercial         Practices (section 5, sources 1 and 4).
That report was jointly used by the Law Commission of England and the       Scottish Law Commission in drawing up their consultation paper, Consumer         Redress for Misrepresentation and Aggressive Practices (section 5,       source 2).
The section of the consultation paper entitled `Calls for a       Private Right of Redress' (paragraphs 1.19 et seq.)
begins with a       discussion of Collins 2009.
The consultation paper also includes several       references &#8212; in particular at pp.
24, 26, 84 and 149 - to Collins's other       works in this area (cited in section 3, above).
Collins organised and was one of the speakers at the only public event       concerning the Consultation Paper.
This event was attended by civil       servants from the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills and by       officials involved in the day-to-day enforcement of consumer protection       rules, as well as by the teams from both Law Commissions (section 5,       sources 6 and 7).
This provided further opportunity for his research to       influence the final Law Commission proposals.
Jessica Uguccioni, a lawyer       at the Law Commission, commented that "written response to [the] proposals       can be relatively narrow in what it says, so the LSE event meant we were       able to get a much better feel of the reaction."
(Section 5 source 5.)
The Law Commissions published their final report in 2012: Consumer         Redress for Misleading and Aggressive Practices (section 5, source       3).
The final report proposes `targeted' or narrow reform - in the form of       a Consumer Bill of Rights &#8212; without addressing the more systematic       weaknesses of the common law.
The report contains frequent references       (most notably at pp.
33, 48 and 81) both to Collins 2009 and to his other       cited research.
Parliament altered the law so as to put in place the substance of the Law       Commissions' Bill of Rights proposal by enacting the Consumer Protection       from Unfair Trading (Amendment) Regulations 2013.
Direct connections can       be drawn between the Collins's 2009 research paper and the 2013       Regulations.
For example, at p. 26 of his 2009 paper, Collins states:     "The Consumer Bill of Rights should aim to give consumers a consistent       direct right of redress across the consumer protection landscape.
In the       context of this report, it should ensure that consumers enjoy an extension       of existing rights of redress in particular areas of unfair commercial       practices, where at present no private law remedy is available or no       remedy in damages is available.
A reform of this nature would involve       statutory changes to the private law doctrines of duress and undue       influence, and misrepresentation.
It might also require adjustments to       other aspects of the law of tort."
And section 27J of the 2013 Regulations provides that:     "a consumer has the right to damages if ... the consumer has incurred       financial loss ... or" &#8212; the extension of the existing rights &#8212; if       "the consumer has suffered alarm, distress, physical discomfort or       inconvenience which the consumer would not have [incurred or] suffered if       the prohibited practice in question had not taken place."
Details of the new regulations, acknowledging and providing a link to       Collins's 2009 report, are provided in the Government's press release at 	  https://www.gov.uk/government/news/new-powers-         to-protect-vulnerable-and-elderly-consumers-against-rogue-traders.
Why the impact matters.
The consequences of Collins's research       having had the impact demonstrated in this study are a) that the relevant       consumer law principles and attendant legislative provisions have been       rendered more coherent and robust, and b) that consumers will now be able       to seek redress for unconscionable sales practices, enhancing consumer       rights and potentially reducing such practices and associated costs to       consumers over time.
