     Gemfloxacin       During the course of studies on S. pneumoniae gyrase and       topoisomerase IV, Fisher and colleagues were approached by       SmithKline-Beecham to define the mode of action of gemifloxacin (Factive),       a fluoroquinolone licensed from LG Pharmaceuticals.
By using a panel of       defined S. pneumoniae mutants bearing known alterations in gyrA       or and parC genes, by mutant selection and by studies of       pneumococcal gyrase and topoisomerase IV, it was demonstrated that       gemifloxacin has a balanced activity through both the gyrase and       topoisomerase IV i.e.
it fulfils the criteria of a dual targeting       antibacterial agent (refs 4 and 5 above).
These studies were instrumental       in the approval of gemifloxacin (NDA 021158) by the FDA in 2003 [A] for       the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia arising from S.         pneumoniae, from penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae and from       multidrug-resistant S. pneumoniae.
Gemifloxacin is marketed worldwide by LG and in North America by Vansen       Pharma (previously by Oscient Pharmaceuticals and Cornerstone       Therapeutics) with companies emphasizing its potency and dual action       properties through reference on their websites to Fisher's work [B].
Gemifloxacin continues to be used in the treatment of refractory       pneumococcal infections and to date more than 1.9 million prescriptions       have been filled in the United States since it was first launched with       sales of $5.1M and $6.3M the US in 2010 and 2011 [C,D].
Besifloxacin &#8212; FDA approval 2009       In 2008, Fisher and colleagues established the mode of action of       besifloxacin, a novel fluoroquinolone developed by Bausch and Lomb.
They       determined its potency and target specificity against S. pneumoniae       and Staphylococcus aureus, the two bacterial pathogens most       frequently involved in bacterial conjunctivitis [E].
The properties of the       drug established by these genetic and biochemical means were consistent       with the desired dual targeting of gyrase and topo IV and lower resistance       development.
The Fisher group used recombinant human topoisomerase II       (cloned by them and expressed in yeast) to show that besifloxacin was       highly selective in inhibiting bacterial topoisomerases whilst having       littleeffect on human topoisomerase.
Their work contributed significantly       to the FDA approval for the drug (NDA 22-308) granted in May 2009 [F] &#8212;       extended in Sept 2012 to other indications including virulent       sight-threatening pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa [G].
Besifloxacin (Besivance) has been shown to resolve bacterial       conjunctivitis more rapidly and efficiently than other treatments on the       market providing significant patient benefit [H].
InSite Vision (which       took a single-figure royalty for providing the mucoadhesive formulation)       recorded $1.2 million besifloxacin royalty revenues in 2011, and $2.1       million for 2012 [I].
400,000 prescriptions for besifloxacin were filled       in the US from November 2010 through March 2012 [J].
Development of new antibacterials       Fisher and colleagues' work on topoisomerase structures begins to explain       how mutations at or near the drug binding pockets induce drug resistance.
One insight from the X-ray crystallography work is that rather subtle       changes in drug structure are sufficient to avoid cross-resistance with       quinolones.
This realisation is being exploited by pharmaceutical       companies to design a new generation of drugs that target resistant       bacteria, in some cases exploiting new binding pockets on the target       molecule.
Without knowledge of the molecular structure, these approaches       would be severely limited, and largely dependent on relatively inefficient       trial-and-error screening.
These structures are providing key leads for       compound development, although industrial collaborators are unwilling to       release confidential information on this for the REF.
The expectation is       that these new drug entities will be valuable in the management of       bacterial diseases.
Given the close similarities in target enzyme       structures between S. pneumoniae, S. aureus and other       species, this approach will benefit the discovery of new drugs in a wide       range of bacterial pathogens.
