     The participatory research carried out in the two aforementioned projects       has made a major contribution in the context of access and interpretation       in museums and other heritage venues for people with learning       disabilities.
Specifically and uniquely, the projects engaged this       user group as co-researchers and demonstrated that such targeted       consultation and participation is crucial to the success of research in       these fields.
Involvement and empowerment of people with learning disabilities       The people with learning disabilities used as co-researchers were       empowered by their direct involvement in the creative processes of       production and had access to technology that enabled them to appreciate       its purpose and potential uses (see       http://hci2012.bcs.org/demos/hci2012_submission_221%20(1).pdf).
Writing about the Access to Heritage Project in Design Journal       (2008), the Visitor Experience Officer at Speke Hall stated that this       involvement was `key to the successful development of the sensory trail'       at Speke Hall for the benefit of other users (with and without learning       disabilities), carers and heritage organisations now able to benefit from       exhibits tailored to their use.
As the President of Mencap wrote in 2005: "Hands-on exhibits bring a       space to life, giving a greater understanding and meaning to cultural       heritage.
This is especially important for people with learning       disabilities."
For this social group, hands-on experience of cultural       objects has, in recent years, become an important approach in promoting an       understanding of cultural heritage, as highlighted by the Access to       Heritage Forum, and in response many museums and heritage sites have       established `handling collections'.
However, because these materials are       usually chosen by the curators rather than determined by the user group,       many of them are deemed to be too delicate to be handled by people with       learning disabilities and so such individuals often have to be limited to       looking at pictures in books.
Key to Allen's work is the attempt to allow       this user group to enjoy a more direct encounter with museum artefacts       (complementing conventional museum information), encouraging a shared       ownership of public collections and their histories.
Communication beyond the immediate research group is facilitated by the       use of blogs, seminars, conference papers and events, as well as the       exhibits and displays themselves at museum sites.
To date, the group has       made three public presentations of the research:     Successful events       The Sensory Stories event, held at Speke Hall on 21 March 2013, was       attended by over 100 people, including curatorial and education museum       staff and disability workers.
The day showcased the co-researchers' work,       including workshop tasters and displays of the interactive sensory objects       to the general public.
The event was covered by a feature in the Liverpool         Echo.
The Sensory Stories Retold seminar, held at the Museum of Liverpool on 7       May 2013, brought together the research group of 20 people and 40       delegates, including museum curators, academics and disability experts, in       a discussion about the project's impact in its initial year and the future       direction of research.
As an example of the feedback received the Head of       Arts and Wellbeing at Sense (an organisation supporting the rights of the       deafblind community), commented: `... you have inspired me to think about       ways to encourage the use and exploration of multimedia technology in some       of the narrative and storytelling projects and co-ordinate with children       with dual-sensory impairment.'
Other feedback emphasised the importance of including people with       learning disabilities as co- researchers.
It was noted that in developing       interpretation at museums it is typical to approach the task from the       common denominator of a group of people with disabilities and make       generalised assumptions about them.
In contrast, Allen's projects adopt       the unique approach of interacting with individuals with disabilities and       then spreading out to the wider community - a method that brings       alternative perspectives and empowers the user group.
Dissemination and usage of research       In addition to the above-mentioned events, Allen's research is being       disseminated through the Sensory Objects blog, which provides narrative       accounts and images to illustrate the development of the project and the       research model in practice, and to facilitate engagement with the       initiative by a wider community through, for example, downloadable       resources such as a `cookbook' of workshop activities.
The Cookbook and       workshop tools were developed with UROP students during July and August,       the new kit was test at MERL on 5th Sept working with Reading       Mencap, the Cookbook has been sent to attendees to the Sensory Stories       Retold Seminar and others for feedback.
Visitor Experience staff at Speke Hall have enthusiastically embraced the       new approach to interpretation that Allen's work has presented: `It's a       completely new perspective, which we're always open to [... T]he house's       history is about people and people's stories and people's lives, so to get       the people to comment on that is much healthier, it's much richer, it's       less boring, it's not some textbook panel [...W]hat are the stories we       need to bring out and how can we use this new technology to really bring       those to life?
I'd like all the National Trust properties to do it [...] I       will be telling all [of them]'.
Allen's research informs the University of Reading Art Department's       impact and teaching strategy.
For instance, two students in the       University's Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme worked on the       project over the summer 2013.
The research has also led to the staging of       interactive sculpture workshops for art students funded by Digitally       Ready, a JISC-funded project under the Developing Digital Literacies       programme (the project has been awarded further funding to continue in       2013-14).
Project findings and outputs will be shared throughout the       Higher Education sector.
(see http://introductiontointeractivesculpture.blogspot.co.uk/)     Awards     The Access to Heritage Project won `Best Community Arts Event or Group'       at the 2008 DaDa (Deaf and Disabled Arts) Awards.
