     Early years policy       Stephen's research on pedagogy as a neglected dimension of early years       teaching, and particularly her notions of proximal and distal guided       interaction in play and learning, influenced the early years policies of       the Irish Department of Education and Science (2010, http://tinyurl.com/mgotmkj).
Stephen's definition of curriculum, and emphasis on understanding       children's engagement in experiences, has shaped the Government of South       Australia's approach to early years policies.
In particular, it influenced       their `Reconceptualising Reception' initiative, established in 2008 as a       practitioner inquiry project (http://tinyurl.com/mnzc9nd).
Stephen's research on children's learning and play with digital       technologies has influenced policy and practice guidance and strategies       for technology use in early years settings in Scotland and beyond.
A       report on guidance for the Early Years Foundation Stage in England by       Aubrey and Dahl for BECTA (2008) adopted Plowman and Stephen's concept of       guided interaction to denote the ways in which adults can support       children's encounters with technology and has made use of their examples       of distal and proximal guided interaction.
A White Paper on the Digital       World of the Child for the Pearson Foundation (2010) uses findings from       Entering e-Society (Stephen et al, 2008) on children's varying reactions       to digital resources to support policies that recognise age- appropriate       processing speed.
In the USA the 2012 joint position statement on digital       technologies from the National Association for the Education of Young       Children (NAEYC) and the Fred Rogers Center cites the work of Plowman and       Stephen (2005, 2007) on the mediating role of teachers and the need for       developmentally appropriate practice.
The 2012 UNESCO report on ICT and       early childhood education summarises the perceived risks based on the work       of Stephen and Plowman (2003) and draws on Stephen and Plowman (2006) to       explain how practitioner actions can enhance children's encounters with       technologies.
Gaelic language learning: policy       The research on Gaelic learning in family and other pre-school settings       has influenced national policies for language development.
M&#224;iri Nic Ille       Mhaoil, Head of Education and Learning at B&#242;rd na G&#224;idhlig, wrote in       October 2013 that: Your research has influenced our thinking about the         developments that are needed if we are to ensure high quality early         years education and effective language learning opportunities in         Gaelic-medium preschool settings.
As a result of the research we         incorporated an intention to `coordinate, support and develop all         aspects of Gaelic learning for 0-5 years' and to act on the findings of         the Early Years research into The Gaelic-medium Early Years Strategy         2013-17.
The research findings are reflected in the strategic priority         in the National Plan (2012-17) to improve the quality and availability         of voluntary-led Gaelic pre-school activities and statutory early years         education and in the specific intentions mentioned regarding the supply         of resources, encouraging children's engagement with Gaelic beyond the         preschool setting and professional development opportunities.
Furthermore, the Scottish Government selected Stephen and colleagues to       present the Scottish input at the 2012 seminar organised by the       British-Irish Council Indigenous, Minority and Lesser Used Languages Group       to share best practice and inform future policy (http://tinyurl.com/d87r59o).
Gaelic language learning: teaching       The research has also impacted on teaching.
As a result of the research,       St&#242;rlann, the national Gaelic educational resource agency, funded the       localisation of a multimedia app for mobile devices (Ar st&#242;iridh) to help       children in Gaelic-medium nurseries tell their story in Gaelic (http://tinyurl.com/qflvac).
St&#242;rlann then invited Stephen and McPake to train practitioners at their       annual professional development conference.
Education Scotland publishes       staff development resources based on the findings from the British Academy       funded study on its website.
Initial teacher education       Finally, the research has influenced initial teacher education and       professional development in early years education.
This influence       stretches way beyond Stirling.
Stephen's 2006 literature review,       commissioned by the Scottish Executive to inform the development of the       early years element of the new national curriculum in Scotland (http://tinyurl.com/4krnqnd),       has been widely used as a resource for students of childhood practice and       early years education.
Stephen and Plowman authored invited chapters on       young children's use of technologies for international handbooks (e.g.
the       forthcoming Routledge International Handbook of Play) and for       books for practitioners and students in Norway and the UK.
Stephen's       writing on the value of articulating pedagogic practices is cited and       discussed in standard textbooks for students on Early Years Foundation       Degrees and Childhood Studies degrees by Whalley and Allen (2010) and       Rogers (2011).
A book chapter by Stephen about children's experiences with       technology, originally published in Clark and Tucker (2010), was reprinted       in an Open University course reader (Extending Professional Practice in         the Early Years, Miller et al, 2012) aimed at those undertaking       undergraduate and postgraduate training in early years, and practitioners       involved in continuing their professional development.
Wider public engagement       Stephens' research has been communicated more widely, informing debate       among professional practitioners and improving understanding of       educational research among a wider public.
She was a co-ordinator of and       contributor to the Digital Childhoods programme of events, mounted in 2011       with support from the Scottish Universities' Insight Institute to inform       the policy, commercial and practitioner agendas for the next decade.
She       also authored the Digital Childhoods Research Briefing on `Playing and       Learning with Technologies'.
In addition, she has spoken to a wide variety       of professional and policy groups, including Learning and Teaching       Scotland's early years conference on Curriculum for Excellence (2009) and       presented the 2012 Annual Public Lecture of the Northern Ireland Branch of       the British Psychological Society.
Her research has also been cited       in the media (eg BBC Scotland, 19/4/2013).
