     Rowlands' research proposed a reframing of conventional and restrictive       art historical narrative to emphasize previously ignored connections to       the popular traditions of magic, romanticism and the occult.
This allowed       for the juxtaposition of historical artworks with contemporary examples of       art, literature and film, enabling the presentation of a dynamic, relevant       and broadly legible display of art pieces from the collection at Tate St       Ives.
The impact can be broken down into the following areas:     1.
Widening access to the collections and enabling public           understanding and appreciation of contemporary art.
Augmented by the range of connected events, publications and performances,       The Dark Monarch demonstrated how complex art historical       ideas/practices can be made accessible and legible to a range of user       groups and museum visitors, including not only regular visitors to Tate St       Ives and Towner, but audiences drawn from around Cornwall through the       various connected events.
This is evidenced by the larger than normal       visitor figures at the two galleries: for instance, the St Ives exhibition       recorded the highest number of visitors for any exhibition in its first       three weeks and "the largest winter visitor numbers during my tenure as       Artistic Director", with a total of 32,148 people attending and       participating in events.
To quote the Press &amp; Communications Manager       at Tate St Ives, The Dark Monarch presented "an exciting step       forward in terms of media coverage.
Due to the nature of the contributors       to the exhibition and it's catalogue, reports on both appeared on bloggers       personal webpages, tweets, fan forums [...] and on various websites       devoted to magic and general esoterica such as Aleister Crowley."
2.
Providing educational opportunities.
Drawing upon the connections The Dark Monarch made between art and       magic, the exhibition's learning projects ranged from educating school       groups about key artworks to running workshops for teachers who utilised       the resources developed from the exhibition.
These workshops were used by       nine primary schools, 41 secondary schools, 17 tertiary institutions and       25 community groups.
Other educational events included a torch-lit tour of       the Barbara Hepworth Museum led by Young Tate; The Dark Monarch         Symposium (21 November 2009) which hosted a dynamic and eclectic mix       of talks, debate and performance, including a presentation by Leviathan       author Philip Hoare, a music performance by Cyclobe and a screening of the       Incredible String Band's film Be Glad For The Song Has No Ending       introduced by director Peter Neale; and three Dark Monarch Book       Groups hosted at Tate St Ives.
3.
Influencing museum strategy       The Dark Monarch demonstrated the way in which archival research       can enable the rethinking of conventional histories of art, proposing new       ways to display and contextualise previously underused museum collections       and archives.
This has subsequently influenced the programming and       curation of exhibitions at Tate St Ives, as evidenced by the quote: "As       Artistic Director, the experience of the research and its iteration across       the curated exhibition, publication and public events has been key for me       in informing how we should be creatively engaging with public historical       collections and archives, and how the vitality of these resources are       enlivened with contemporary approaches and practices."
Furthermore, significant discoveries were made through the research,       including the acquisition of Ithell Colquhoun's entire library, now held       at the Tate; FayPomerance's Sphere of Redemption (1967); and Penny       Slinger's 1960s' photo-collages and book-works &#8212; an overlooked body of       work that amounts to a major contribution to feminist surrealist practice       &#8212; acquired subsequently for the Tate collection in 2010.
In summary, the beneficiaries of the research included:            members of the general public interested in contemporary art and the         history of art;       visitors/users of art galleries and museums, including exhibitions and         associated events;       audiences for symposia and conferences on contemporary art and the         history of art;       users of/participants in educational projects at         galleries/museums/schools;       participants in the scheduled live events/performances, and       museum staff.
