     The initial 2008 study by Planche et al (reference 1 above) received       widespread coverage in the       scientific literature and also in the mainstream press [A].
The ensuing       debate highlighted an       appreciation of the inadequacies of current diagnostic technologies for       CDI, and led to the 2009       Department of Health recommendation that enzyme immune assays should not       be used as single-staged       tests for CDI in England, Scotland [B] and elsewhere.
This work was cited       in the 2009 NHS       Purchasing and Supply evaluation report (CEP080-54) [C].
In 2010, the       European Society of       Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases also recommended a two-step       protocol for the       diagnosis of CDI (i.e.
screening with one method, and confirming the       results with another) [D].
Later in 2010, the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America and the       Infectious Diseases       Society of America jointly produced updated clinical practice guidelines       for CDI diagnosis and       management.
These stated that enzyme immunoassay testing for toxins A and       B is suboptimal,       and suggested two-step testing algorithms as an interim recommendation in       their clinical guidelines       until more data became available [E].
The results of the diagnostic study led to a change in Department of       Health and Public Health       England policy for NHS hospitals in England [F].
This has led to changes       in all NHS laboratories in       England, and to changes in the mandatory reporting of CDI cases.
Public       Health England statistics       for CDI infection rates across England have fallen substantially over       recent years.
In 2007/8 there       were 55,534 cases recorded in England.
In 2012/13 14,684 cases were       recorded [G].
Although       this marked improvement is the result of several factors including       hospital cleanliness, staff       awareness, antibiotic and other drug prescribing, it is also clear that       accurate diagnosis &#8212; by       allowing early intervention and isolation of infected individuals &#8212; has       made a substantial impact on       the trend.
In summary, the reach and impact of this research on validated reference       assays and defined       recommendations for the laboratory detection of CDI is clearly       demonstrated by changed       recommendations and clinical practice in the NHS, in Europe, and in the       United States.
