     University of Oxford research has led to the first non-invasive prenatal       genetic diagnostic tests.
This non-invasive alternative to traditional       tests has significantly improved the quality of care offered to pregnant       women at a high risk of carrying a genetic mutation.
This research has       also significantly reduced fetal risk, as traditional early diagnostic       tests, such as chorionic villus sampling, carry a risk of miscarriage of       around 1%.
Fetal Sex Determination       Prenatal fetal sex determination is recommended to women at high risk of       serious genetic disorders affecting a specific sex, such as congenital       adrenal hyperplasia, haemophilia or Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
The       identification of cell-free fetal DNA in maternal circulation has allowed       the development of non-invasive prenatal diagnostic tests, which are       capable of determining fetal sex early and without risk.
An independent       paper published in 2008, showed that early determination of fetal sex is       feasible and reliable using cell-free fetal DNA tests from just seven       weeks, and should be made available to all women at risk of X-linked       disorders as well as metabolic conditions7.
The report also       stated that use of this technology could reduce the need for invasive       procedures by up to 50%7.
A national audit assessing the       effectiveness and clinical utility of non-invasive prenatal genetic       diagnosis for fetal sex determination in the UK concluded that       non-invasive prenatal diagnosis through cell-free fetal DNA testing is       highly accurate in determining fetal sex when performed in NHS       laboratories8.
In addition to fetal sex determination,       non-invasive cell-free fetal DNA tests are now available in the UK to test       the rhesus blood group in a fetus within 12 weeks of pregnancy without any       risk9, enabling fast effective prenatal care for mother and       child.
Diagnosis of Down Syndrome       The first non-invasive maternal blood test for Down syndrome, the       MaterniT21 assay, became available to physicians on request in 20 regions       within the United States in October 2011.
The MaterniT21 assay, developed       by Sequenom Ltd, is capable of accurately testing maternal blood as early       as 10 weeks into gestation, and has been made available to pregnant women       at a high risk of carrying a fetus with Down syndrome.
With an estimated       750,000 high-risk pregnancies in the United States each year, the test       offers a safer, more specific and sensitive alternative to invasive tests       such as amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling.
The accuracy of the       MaterniT21 assay was confirmed in a 2011 study, which showed the Down       syndrome detection rate for the MaterniT21 test was 98.6%10.
The MaterniT21 assay is not yet available for clinical use outside of the       US.
Clinical Practice Guidelines       In the March 2011 NHS UK Genetic Testing Network's "best practice       guidelines for non-invasive prenatal diagnosis to determine fetal sex for       known carriers of congenital adrenal hyperplasia", recommended the use of       cell-free fetal DNA testing as an alternative for prenatal sex       determination11.
The NHS UK Genetic Testing Network guidelines also report that there are       no cost implications for service providers, due to testing being       cost-neutral, and that the cell-free fetal DNA technique is a highly       sensitive and specific diagnostic test11.
In November 2011 the NHS released additional guidance for commissioners       and public health officials, supporting the use of cell-free fetal DNA for       fetal sex determination in serious genetic disorders12.
Commercialisation       The patent for "non-invasive prenatal diagnosis using cell-free fetal         DNA" was filed in the United Kingdom in March 1998, application       number: PCT/GB98/0069013.
Yuk-Ming Dennis Lo and James Stephen       Wainscoat are listed as co-inventors, while Isis Innovation Limited is the       named patent holder.
Under this patent family a US patent was filed in       July 2001, US Patent number 625854013, and since 2005 Sequenom       Inc. have held an exclusive licence to the invention.
The Sequenom Inc. 2010 Annual Report states that in October 2005 Sequenom       Inc. acquired exclusive rights in certain countries, including the United       States, United Kingdom and other countries in Europe and elsewhere, to       non-invasive prenatal diagnostic intellectual property from Isis       Innovation Ltd. After receiving upfront royalties totaling $0.8 million,       an amendment to the agreement in November 2009 led to a second one-time       royalty payment of $1,000,000.
During the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, the       amount of royalties paid to ISIS in connection to product sales was $0.1       million annually14.
The total number of MaterniT21 PLUS tests run since the initial product       launch in 2011 increased from 20,000 in the first year, to 65,000 by mid       2012.
Due to the rapid growth in adoption the Sequenom Inc. now predicts       they will bill 50,000 MaterniT21 PLUS tests in 201215.
