     The pathways to this impact are engagement with professional and emerging       choreographers, emerging professional dancers and young dancers hoping to       become professional dancers/choreographers and organisations that both       programme and develop dance and dance makers.
Through engagement with       Flexer's choreographic methodology individuals have changed their views       about choreography, how they approach their own practice and how they       position dance in the professional dance world.
A total of 4179 people watched TLR.
246 young people took part in dance works created by Flexer as youth         commissions relating to TLR.
917 young people and students took part in         workshops led by Flexer based on TLR.
8 guest artists danced in Flexer's company and were enabled to develop         their choreographic career.
500 artist and teachers took part of         professional development workshops led by Flexer.
1.
Professional Choreographers     Flexer was commissioned to make new works for four emerging       companies/artists as part of `The Living Room' project, which were       integrated into touring performances in different regions (and one       international performance).
Engaging with Flexer's choreographic approach       as part of this unique scheme has opened up new ways of working for all       eight artists involved.
For Lila Dance, Flexer's approach to developing       and incorporating conversational text within performance as well as her       focus on the relationship between performer and audience provided new       choreographic insights, which are influencing their own practice.
Aya       Kobayashi, choreographer for Angali Dance Company began her career as an       apprentice dancers with Flexer and has gone on to become a full company       member and a choreographer in her own right.
She has been exploring the       dancer's individuality as an onstage presence which she says is informed       by Flexer's approach to working with dancers and this has made a       difference to her own dance making practice.
Her new work for Anjali Dance       Company premiered at the Clore Ballroom, Royal Festival Hall, London in       2013, https://vimeo.com/71567814       (See testimonial and emails from Abigail Mortimer and Carrie Whittaker,       Lila Dance; FreeFall Dance; Aya Kobayashi).
Apprentices (emerging professional dancers)     Flexer has provided an effective apprenticeship scheme for post-graduate       dancers to transition into professional practice.
Often these apprentices,       such as Hannily who worked on The Living Room rural tour as an       assistant and workshop leader, go on to make their own work or to       successfully develop a career in dance (she is now rehearsal director for       Hampshire Youth Dance and teaches dance at the Univeristy of Chichester       and Bath Spa University).
The scheme has afforded two graduate dancers       from the South-East the opportunity to become full company members - Aya       Kobayashi for `Doing, Done and Undone' (2007-09) and Hannah Martin for The         Living Room (2010-11).
Both apprentices developed personally and       artistically through the process and subsequently secured employment in       dance roles.
Martin is now teaching and making her own work for her       company FreeFall Dance.
Kobayashi is a company member for Flexer most       recently performing in Weightless (http://flexerandsandiland.com/archives/yael-flexer/performances/weightless-2013/)       and choreographer for Anjali Dance Company (See email testimonials from       Hannah Martin, Aya Kobayashi).
Organisational impact (on staff and the young dancer participants)     Within `The Living Room' project alone, Flexer created 13 commissioned       works for youth dance companies involving a total of 246 young people       across the UK.
These works were based on the research themes in TLR and       were performed as curtain raisers.
For some youth companies this was about       a first engagement with dance, and for others it was about shaping their       performance/choreographic skills and nurturing an aspiration to pursue a       dance career.
Flexer worked with young dancers and emerging choreographers at Swindon       Dance and The Place as part of the Centre for Advanced Practice       programmes.
McCluskey (Swindon) says she watched Flexer work and witnessed       several young people change their approach to choreography and some change       their minds about a career path, choosing contemporary dance rather than       hiphop or musical theatre.
She has also run workshops for young people and       dance teachers throughout the SE and is considered to be a valuable assest       to the region and valued for her choreographic contribution and her       ability to transmit her knowledge to a wide range of people (see email       from Sacha Lee, The Point) Cuming (Ludus Dance) says Flexer's approach has       helped her reposition Ludus Dance from one perceived as dance in education       to a professional dance organisation.
Flexer was employed to create work       for Ludus specifically to help them change programmers' perceptions about       Ludus Dance.
What if?
toured successfully as a triple bill       alongside work by Nigel Charnock and Ben Wright.
It was made with many of       the same methodological concerns and during the same time period as The         Living Room (see emails from Marie McCluskey Swindon Dance, Di       Cuming Ludus Dance, Sacha Lee The Point Eastleigh).
