     The basis of the research link to impact is twofold.
Firstly, Murphy's       research has helped to shape programming at the AiM festival, explicitly       fostering an approach that extends beyond the standard focus on a limited       body of filmmaking from Francophone West Africa.
Secondly, the `lost       classics' programmes (featuring pioneering West African directors of the       1960s, and women directors from across the continent) have promoted a more       complex genealogy of African cinema and were directly linked to new       research.
Rather than simply contributing to KE/dissemination, the       festival has acted as a conduit for Murphy's research on the need to       develop new genealogies of African film.
Murphy was on the Board of       Advisors of the AiM festival from 2006-11 and has been a Trustee since       2012 (when the Festival gained charitable status): he has advised on the       mix of `classic films' from 1960s-80s as well as more recent works, and       has sought to inform and educate festival audiences about the diversity of       African cinema in historical, stylistic and regional terms by giving       introductions to films and leading Q&amp;A sessions.
The Festival has       brought many African film directors to Edinburgh, such as Gaston Kabor&#233; in       2008, Jean-Pierre Bekolo in 2012, Newton Aduaka in 2013, with funding from       the University of Stirling, and Murphy conducted Q&amp;As with all three       filmmakers.
Murphy's activities with AiM have given rise to specific       planned outcomes, in particular the development and education of       audiences, as well as the promotion of a wider understanding of African       cinema and its history/diversity.
They have also given rise to important       unplanned outcomes: in particular, the screening of the films in the two       lost classics programmes have led to these films, most notably Mambety's Badou         Boy being made available to a wider set of audiences by individuals       who first encountered them at AiM.
The primary beneficiaries have been cinema audiences across Scotland,       particularly in Glasgow and Edinburgh but also in touring programmes in       recent years, such as to the Highlands in 2010; Murphy gave introductions       to films at the Eden Court Cinema in Inverness in 2009; the festival has       also screened films at the MacRobert Centre at the University of Stirling       since 2012.
In total, since 2006, AiM has attracted over 20,000 people to       its screenings, and the audience response (recorded in questionnaires       distributed during the festival) indicates that the festival has greatly       increased their cultural awareness of Africa: the mix of entertainment and       pedagogical elements (through the film introductions and scholarly events       attached to the festival) has been a key factor in this process.
The       festival is the only such event focusing on African cinema in Scotland,       and it is the second biggest African film festival in the UK after the       recently relaunched London African Film Festival.
The festival's promotion of the `lost classics' of African cinema has had       the most significant impact through the manner in which it influenced the       thinking of the prominent film journalist/curator/filmmaker, Mark Cousins,       whose documentary series The Story of Film, shown on More4 in       Autumn 2011, included in the episode on modernism a detailed discussion of       Badou Boy (dir.Djibril Diop Mamb&#233;ty, 1970), first screened at AiM       in 2006 as part of the `lost classics series.
Cousins was a Board member       for the first three years of the festival's existence, and he moderated a       round table on the lost classics programme at the 2006 festival.
It was       Murphy's archival research that introduced Cousins to these `lost       classics'.
Cousins writes in his article for the 2007 Screen       dossier: `For [lost classics to become found ones], someone like David       Murphy, acting on behalf of something like Africa in Motion, has to go       somewhere like the Cin&#233;math&#232;que Afrique in Paris and watch lots of films,       select the good, rarely seen ones, hand them to people like Lizelle       Bisschoff [...], who will then present them in a festival for people like       me to see' (p.510).
Murphy acted as a consultant prior to the filming of       the sections of The Story of Film that took place in West Africa,       advising on specific sites in Senegal, Dakar in particular, that had       served as locations in landmark African films of the past four decades:       his contribution is acknowledged in the closing credits of this episode.
The documentary series has been celebrated as a groundbreaking work,       charting a new history of global film that gives greater prominence to the       marginalised cinemas of Asia and, in particular, Africa.
The series has       won various prizes (including the 2012 Stanley Kubrick Prize at the       Traverse City Film Festival in Michigan) and is scheduled to be screened       in up to 10 countries and in multiple languages (it screened in the US in       autumn 2013).
The `recovery' of Badou Boy at AiM has also enabled       a series of unplanned impact activities.
It was screened at the Tate       Modern in London, in May 2008, and at the Cultural eXchanges       festival at De Montfort University in March 2010.
In addition, the Tate       has archived a clip from the film on its website.
The film was screened at       New York's Museum of the Moving Image in April 2011, and was the editor's       pick on Alt Screen, a resource described by the New York Times as       `a comprehensive guide to ... New York film culture as we know it'.
Cousins is quoted here, using the language proposed in Murphy's research:       `its sonic complexity, its state of the nation-ness, its Joycean       wandering, its allegorical fun, convinced me that Badou Boy is       undisputedly a lost classic'.
Essentially, Murphy's research has played a key role in allowing the AiM       festival to develop an impact strategy that extends beyond simple       knowledge transfer.
It has developed a clear audience education strategy       that has attracted over 20,000 people to its screenings, and has       consistently sought to widen understandings of African cinema.
Prior to       the creation of AiM, exposure to African film in Scotland consisted solely       of infrequent screenings of films by a small handful of well-known African       directors: this situation has been transformed with a growing audience now       familiar with a body of work whose geographical, historical and aesthetic       diversity has consistently been promoted in Murphy's pioneering research.
