     The research has had specific impact on three main groups: (a) A-level       students, (b) media       professionals and curators, and (c) members of the public interested in       the Gothic aesthetic.
In February 2012, Townshend organised and ran, with Dr Angela Wright of       Sheffield University, an       online seminar on the Gothic for A-level students across the country via       the Peripeteia website &#8212; a       forum designed to `build confidence, creativity, and individual analytical       style'.
250 A-level students       from across the UK participated in this lively one-and-a-half-hour       seminar, and subsequently, the       online discussion has received over 1500 unique hits.
Townshend ran a       similar event on the topic       of `Frankenstein as Romantic Text' in May 2013.
This hour-long       online seminar received a total of       290 posts from A-level students across the UK, with one user describing it       as an `illuminating and       perceptive seminar'.
In both cases, the research that Townshend has       published in The Orders of         Gothic and The Gothic World was translated into educational       contexts beyond Stirling.
As the       worksheets uploaded onto the website indicate, the extended account of the       political myth of       Gothic origins discussed at large in Townshend's 10,000-word introduction       to The Gothic World       formed the background for the online discussion on `What is Gothic?'
in       the first seminar, while in       the second, the discussion drew specifically on the historical readings of       Frankenstein advanced in       The Orders of Gothic.
For groups (b) and (c), Byron's and Townshend's research has broadened       the ways in which       Gothic forms are understood, interpreted and used.
A principal vehicle for       this impact is the       Stirling-based website, www.gothic.stir.ac.uk,       which is run by Townshend and directly supported by       Byron's and Townshend's research into modern and contemporary Gothic.
Google analytics reveal       that this website receives in excess of 7000 unique visitors per month;       its content is shared further       through social media sites (1700 followers on Twitter, and 678 `likes' on       Facebook).
The website       includes reviews of monographs; articles on relevant topics, guest blogs,       the latest `news' for the       Gothic enthusiast, calls for papers; and published interviews with       contemporary Gothic writers.
Through the website, their work on Gothic as both a critical concept and       an aesthetic with global       reach has influenced publishers as well members of the public.
The       website's standing &#8212; as the       primary online resource dedicated to expanding, enhancing and       disseminating Gothic scholarship       among a broad base of readers beyond the academy &#8212; is attested to by the       considerable interest it       has attracted from publishers worldwide.
Thus Orion books asked Byron and       Townshend to       publicise Justin Cronin's video blog tour discussing his apocalyptic       vampire novel, The Passage       (2011), and similarly to publicise Michelle Paver's Dark Matter       (2011), with an exclusive interview       with Paver published on the website.
At the same time Faber publicised the       reissue of two Gothic       novels by Emma Tennant (originally published 1989 and 1992), and the       website was asked to       publish the preface to the book as a `sneak preview'.
In 2011, Byron and       Townshend worked with       Faber to publicise Richard Kelly's The Possessions of Doctor Forest,       with Kelly interviewed on the       website.
These and the wide range of Gothic novelists interviewed for the       website have broadened       publishers' conception of Gothic as a category, and created critical       debate and reflection on       contemporary Gothic cultural production among enthusiasts beyond the       academy worldwide.
As well as aiding the reach of publishers through a diverse, global       conception of the Gothic,       Byron's and Townshend's work has also had an impact on UK media       practitioners and curators.
Byron was interviewed on the topic of Vampires by Heather Stott for BBC       Radio Manchester in       September 2009.
Townshend, similarly, was interviewed about his work on       Horace Walpole,       Gothic architecture and early Gothic writing on "A Guided Tour to The         Castle of Otranto", a       programme broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in March 2010, which was subsequently       featured on BBC       Radio 4's "Pick of the Week" digest.
In both these cases, the specialised       research topics of Byron       and Townshend improved the quality of debate about Gothic forms, thereby       enhancing the       understanding of the terms within the media and its regional and national       audiences.
Townshend's       research has also been picked up by curators at the British Library to       assist their exhibition       development and design.
In November 2012 the Library's Board of Governors       approved an       exhibition based on Townshend's research, `Dark Horror!
hear my call: 250       Years of the Gothic       Imagination' (the British Library normally hold three exhibitions per       year), and Townshend is the       sole academic advisor for the project.
A team of three British Library       curators, Tim Pye, Tanya Kirk       and Philip Hatfield, have been working with Townshend since November 2012       and Greg Buzwell,       an independent researcher, was appointed in January 2013 to work full-time       on the development of       the exhibition until the opening in 2014.
A substantial section of the       exhibition concerns       Townshend's specific field of current research, namely the connection       between architecture and       the Gothic in the period 1760-1840.
Although the process of developing an       exhibition is often       invisible to the public, for the understanding of impact it is important       to note the significant period of       time that has already been invested, and the benefit that Townshend's       research has already       brought to the British Library as an organisation and the current       activities of its staff.
In the area of arts development, Byron's and Townshend's research       underpinned a festival of       international Gothic horror films held in 2008 at the MacRobert Centre, a       public cinema and arts       centre situated on the University of Stirling campus.
Entitled `Hallowe'en       Gothic', this festival of       international horror film was a planned impact activity aimed specifically       at benefiting the general       cinema-going public in and around Stirling.
The programme was informed by,       and drew directly on,       the research undertaken in the Global Gothic network symposia, and Byron's       thesis about the       contemporary proliferation of gothic art-forms.
The festival &#8212; with 21       films from Czechoslovakia,       Sweden, Chile, New Zealand, Germany and Japan, including shorts and full       length features &#8212; exposed       new cinema audiences to an unusually broad range of contemporary Gothic       films from       around the globe.
In addition to the public-ticketed film screenings,       attended on average by 60       people per screening, Byron and Townshend organized several events which       engaged the cinema-viewing       public to consider contemporary Gothic production within the context of       globalization, and       interrogated the applicability of the term `Gothic' itself.
In       discussions, audience members       commented that they were seeing many films for the first time and, aided       by an accompanying       series of public talks, workshops and lectures, they communicated their       new-found sense of the       diversity of `the Gothic', and its non-Anglo-American contexts.
Byron's       and Townshend's research       on the limits of the `Gothic' descriptor were the driver behind these       events; it led audiences to       reconsider the `Gothic' concept, and to reflect on its global reach.
The       Film Festival was reported       positively in the Sunday Times as an important awareness-raising       event, and was described in the       headline as `Raising Gothic Horrors from the Dead'.
