     Research carried out by the University of Oxford's Clinical Genetics       Laboratory has directly       influenced changes in sperm donor guidelines in the UK and abroad.
The       research has also       received significant media attention, contributing to improved social       awareness of paternal age       effect mutations, as well as public awareness of genetic diagnostic       testing.
Changes to Practice Guidelines       Oxford University's 1996 discovery of the paternal age effect on mutations       in Apert syndrome was       a major contributor to the 1999 decision of the British Andrology Society       to introduce an upper age       limit of 40 years for sperm donors7.
The University of Oxford's       1996 paper3 was one of two studies       from the same year that were cited as primary evidence for imposing the       age limit to prevent the       transmission of somatic mutations (the other describing an association of       increase in parental age       with cases of dyskinetic cerebral palsy).
In a review of sperm donor       guidance in 20048, the UK       Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority confirmed the British       Andrology Society's       recommendations for an upper age limit, again citing the group's 1996       paper3.
This upper age limit for sperm donors was upheld in the British Andrology       Society's 2008       guidance9.
The Practice Committee of the American Society for       Reproductive Medicine, and the       Practice Committee of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology       have since introduced an       upper age limit for sperm donors10.
Public Awareness of Paternal Age Effect       In October 2009, the Clinical Genetics Laboratory's description of       selective advantage due to       deleterious mutations in the testes5 received wide coverage in       national newspapers.
Articles       featuring commentary from Professor Wilkie were published in The Times11,       The Telegraph12, and       the Daily Mail Online13.
These articles and the associated       research have increased public       consciousness and understanding of the parental age effect.
The impact       this research has had on       society is illustrated in a recent feature article on late fatherhood,       published in the Daily Mail14.
The       article received over 70 comments from readers14.
