     Context to impact       In 2011, as a result of a sustained increase in violence and public       disorder at Glasgow Rangers       and Glasgow Celtic football matches, which was closely related to       deep-rooted sectarian (i.e.
Protestant / Roman Catholic) tensions in West Central Scotland, the First       Minister of Scotland,       Alex Salmond, chaired a "Football Summit", which was attended by Scottish       Government       Ministers, the Police, football clubs and football authorities.
These       sectarian tensions also reflected       long-standing racism directed against Irish immigrant communities in       Scotland, and historic cultural       associations between Glasgow Rangers fans and extremist Ulster Unionism       and Glasgow Celtic       fans and militant Irish Republicanism.
Following the summit, sectarian and       offensive behaviour by       football fans and related threatening communications were identified as       priorities and the Scottish       Government introduced highly controversial legislation in the Scottish       Parliament, which was       passed as the Offensive Behaviour at Football and Threatening       Communications (Scotland) Act       2012.
The expertise of Drs Goodall and McArdle, as articulated and demonstrated       in the underpinning       research, had a distinct and material impact beyond academia by informing       and enriching the       Scottish policy debate on hate crime and on the development of legislation       by the Scottish       Parliament and Scottish Government in the following ways.
Impact on policy beyond academia     Dr Goodall's body of work has showcased her expertise on the interaction       between hate crime and       legislation.
She was awarded funding in 2011 by the Royal Society of       Edinburgh and the Clark       Foundation to organise a colloquium, seminar and workshop on       "Conceptualising the 'racial' in       Scots Criminal Law".
The events took place in October 2011 and April 2012.
Non-academic       participants included the Scottish Government, the Crown Office and       Procurator Fiscal Service (i.e.
the Scottish public prosecutor's office), the English judiciary, the       Equality and Human Rights       Commission, the Scottish Police, local government and Women's Aid       Edinburgh.
This research-based       leadership had impact by enriching public policy debate beyond academia on       legal aspects       of race crime and sectarianism (which are often inter-related in Scotland)       by facilitating the       participation of and communication between these key non-academic       stakeholders, and by       disseminating a range of views for them.
Dr McArdle was part of a       multi-disciplinary team of       experts awarded &#163;40,000 by the Scottish Government to inquire into the use       of Football Banning       Orders in Scotland, specifically their perceived under-use as a sanction       for those convicted of       sectarian-motivated offences associated with football matches.
The       research was completed in       April 2011 and was published by the Scottish Government in report form in       July 2011.
By co-authoring       a report published by the Scottish Government, Dr McArdle impacted on       Scottish public       policy development beyond academia by enriching and informing debate       between key       stakeholders, including the Scottish Government itself.
Then, as a result       of his co-authorship of the       report and therefore his demonstrated expertise in the area, the Scottish       Government asked Dr       McArdle and Niall Hamilton Smith (also of Stirling University) if, in       conjunction with the Scottish       Government Community Safety Unit, they would organise a one-day workshop       for thirty invited key       participants including senior Scottish Government officials, the Scottish       Police and other non-academic       stakeholders to facilitate discussion of the contents of the highly       controversial Offensive       Behaviour at Football and Threatening Communications (Scotland) Bill 2011.
The event was held       in November 2011.
Dr McArdle's research-based leadership in       co-organising the workshop in       conjunction with the Scottish Government impacted on public policy       development beyond       academia by facilitating the participation of and communication between       these non-academic       stakeholders in the debate on policy development, and by disseminating a       range of views for them.
Dr Goodall and Dr Mcardle are also co-investigators on a       multi-disciplinary team which in 2013       received &#163;157k funding from the Scottish Government to study the operation       of the Offensive       Behaviour at Football and Threatening Communications (Scotland) Act 2012.
The team's first       report will be submitted to the Scottish Government in November 2013 (i.e.
within the current REF       period).They are therefore continuing to impact on Scottish public policy       development beyond       academia by enriching and informing the understanding of the Scottish       Government and other key       non-academic stakeholders in this controversial area.
Impact on law-making by the Scottish Parliament     As a result of their expertise as articulated and demonstrated in the       underpinning research, Drs       Goodall and McArdle were invited to give evidence to the Justice Committee       of the Scottish       Parliament on the Offensive Behaviour at Football and Threatening       Communications (Scotland) Bill       2011 as part of the formal law-making process.
Their evidence, which is       extensive and drew upon       the ideas developed in the underpinning research, is available on the       official record of the Scottish       Parliament (see section 5, para.4 below).
The research therefore       contributed to the debates,       scrutiny and law-making processes of the Scottish Parliament and had an       impact beyond       academia by enriching and informing law-making and public policy in       Scotland.
Dr Goodall and Dr McArdle were cited frequently by the Justice Committee       in its Stage 2 Report on       the Bill, which is also part of the law-making process in the Scottish       Parliament (see section 5,       para.5 below).
The Justice Committee specifically requested further clarification from       the Scottish Government in       respect of several of the points Dr Goodall and Dr McArdle had made, which       the Scottish       Government undertook to do when it published its response to the Justice       Committee's report in       October 2011.
Dr Goodall and Dr McArdle also provided written submissions       on the Bill to the       Justice Committee, which was underpinned by their research (Dr McArdle's       submission was co-       authored with Dr Sarah Christie of Robert Gordon University).
Dr Goodall's       submission was cited in       debate prior to her giving evidence to the Justice Committee by Graeme       Pearson MSP and Hamsa       Yousaf MSP, and by John Finnie MSP and the Lord Advocate at a later       meeting of the Committee.
It was also cited at First Minister's Question Time in the Chamber by       Roderick Campbell MSP.
Mr       Richard Foggo, Head of the Scottish Government Community Safety Unit and a       member of the       Scottish Government team that developed the Offensive Behaviour Etc       (Scotland) Bill 2011, said       on the Official Record of the Scottish Parliament during the passage of       the Bill:     "I note Dr Kay Goodall's excellent evidence to the Justice Committee       [i.e.
of       the Scottish Parliament].
I recommend it to the committee not because it       supports our position, but because it is fundamentally good-quality       thinking       that challenges us in the bill team.
I have no hesitation in recommending       to       you evidence that challenges some of our positions."
Dr McArdle's submission was cited by Alison McInnes MSP when questioning       the Justice Minister       Roseanna Cunningham MSP in Committee, and was cited subsequently in the       Chamber by       Graeme Pearson MSP.
The Deputy Convener of the Justice Committee invited       Dr McArdle to       make a further written submission, to be distributed to the committee for       their information.
(Please       see section 5, note 6 below for links to all these citations on the       Official Record of the Scottish       Parliament).
