     The research described in section 2 had impact by influencing the terms       of debate both in Greece and (through the `bail out' conditions) more       widely, and through direct influence on reforms of the Prime Minister's       Office and its links with the rest of government.
INFLUENCE ON THE TERMS OF DEBATE.
Both the English and Greek       editions of [3] were reviewed in the mainstream Greek press (e.g.
TO BHMA,       Kathimerini).
Featherstone disseminated the book's central arguments &#8212;       weak processes of central control and coordination, inadequate monitoring       and evaluation as contributory factors in the failure of reform &#8212; in       newspaper articles [A], interviews [B] and presentations [C].
In addition,       the fieldwork interviews with surviving Prime Ministers and senior       officials described in section 2 themselves established a profile for the       research (and its central argument) among the political elite.
Because of these activities, when taking up office in October 2009, Prime       Minister (PM) George Papandreou, Finance Minister Papakonstantinou, and       their senior advisers, were already familiar with the research and       newspaper articles; and their advisers also read and commented on [4, 5].
Upon becoming Prime Minister, Papandreou invited Featherstone to join a       small informal group of his immediate advisers to review the organisation       of his office and its relations with the rest of government.
In 2010, he       appointed Featherstone to join a new 5-member Committee charged with       bringing forward proposals for reform [D].
Expressly, the letter of invitation took up one of the key themes of       Featherstone's research, that reform should strengthen the processes of       control and coordination from the centre.
The Committee reported in       mid-2010, outlining key principles and recommending structures.
Featherstone was the rapporteur for the Committee, responsible for       synthesising and editing the final report, which was later presented to       Parliament [D, E].
From Featherstone's discussions with the PM, and the subsequent work of       the Committee, it was evident that his core research findings had       influenced the PM and his colleagues, notably:            The sharp contrast between public views about the formal powers of         government and the reality of the constraints on processes of control         and coordination from the centre &#8212; constraints that have been evident         since 1974 despite attempts at reform.
The contrast between the resources allocated to the Prime Minister and         the centre of government in Greece and the substantially larger         resources available to governments of other European states of a similar         size.
Featherstone's arguments about the need to strengthen control,         monitoring and coordination within government &#8212; including policy         evaluation and impact assessment.
IMPACT ON POLICY.
By influencing the terms of the debate, the       research had a direct impact on government policy, and subsequently on       conditions imposed on Greece as part of the `bail out'.
Greek government policy: Featherstone's research was used as       evidence to inform Papandreou's organizational reforms as Prime Minister       [F], and news coverage [G] shows the public recognition of Featherstone's       influential role.
In an address to his Cabinet in September 2010,       televised live, the PM quoted Featherstone's articles in support of the       reforms he was about to bring forward.
Featherstone was the only member of       the Committee to be mentioned by name [F].
The Greek media also       highlighted Featherstone's influence [G]     The government announced organisational reforms consistent with the       Committee's report from November 2010 onwards.
In January 2011, Parliament       voted on the creation of a General Secretariat to the Prime Minister with       new powers and responsibilities for coordination and control, follow-up       monitoring of the internal processes of the government, and policy       evaluation and impact assessment [F,H].
Policy as part of the `bail out': though the deepening economic       crisis meant that the Papandreou Government was unable to implement the       recommendations in full, or to complete the reforms to the PM's Office       [F], the reforms advanced by Featherstone and the Committee, were regarded       as crucial to the ability of a Greek government to meet the conditions of       its debt `bail-out' loans.
The centrality of the reforms is evident in       several ways.
The OECD report on Greece in 2011 [I] criticised the lack of central         direction and coordination of the reform agenda and cited Featherstone         and Papadimitriou [3];       The Greek-IMF `Letter of Intent' [J] and subsequent follow-up reports         required organizational reform at the centre of government;       The invitation to Featherstone by the Head of the EU Commission         Taskforce for a private one-on-one briefing [K].
The impact of the research was sustained, as shown by the adoption of a       new law in January 2013 providing for the creation of a `General       Secretariat for the Coordination of the Government', with a Secretary       General to be appointed for a five-year term and a permanent staff [L].
This was consistent with Featherstone's emphasis on the need for       continuity of personnel and of structures, sustained by       politically-independent senior officials.
Greece's international partners have also recognised this agenda (Troika,       Taskforce, OECD) [I, J, K], emulating Featherstone's call in his 5 April       2009 Kathimerini article [A].
As a result, addressing these issues was a       condition for Greece to continue to receive its debt `bail-out' loan.
