     The research has been contributing to policy development over a lengthy       period.
In this case study, we focus on impact from 2008 onwards.
The `reach' of the impact has been substantial: the research findings       have played a significant role in ensuring better informed public       policy-making in the field of personal care provision in Scotland,       England, Wales and Northern Ireland, leading to direct changes in policy       (detailed below).
As a guideline to the numbers of people affected by the       research findings and the related policies, 33,000 older people received       FPC in Scotland in 2003-4 and by 2011-12 this had risen to 46,000, with       costs of &#163;342m.
This population also shows increasingly high levels of       need, from 7 hours per week to 8 hours over the same period9 In       addition, the impact has achieved international reach, through the World       Demographic Association in Switzerland and via work contributing to a       Russell Sage foundation publication led by Syracuse University's Maxwell       School of Citizenship, which aimed to influence implementation of the       CLASS Act USA (Community Living Assistance Services and Supports) in the       USA (the CLASS Act was eventually withdrawn by the Obama administration in       October 2011).
Influential stakeholders including LeadingAge, the Urban       Institute, AARP (formerly the American Association of Retired Persons),       United Hospital Fund NYC and Thomson Reuters were co-contributors.
The       published volume continues to contribute to the debate through the Russell       Sage Foundation's commitment to `the improvement of social and living       conditions in the United States'10.
The `significance' of the research findings has also been substantial.
The project set out baseline information which enabled the monitoring of       the FPC policy in Scotland, which was reviewed by Audit Scotland in 200811       and subsequently cited as evidence in the Sutherland review in 200812,       of which Bell was a member.
This confirmed the all-party commitment to FPC       in Scotland, despite the rising costs: coverage cited the Stirling       research as fundamental13.
The significance of the research findings was felt in the English, Welsh       and Northern Ireland policy contexts.
The research was cited as part of       the Wanless review of various options for funding social care in 2006,       which continues to inform debate and has led to the ongoing development of       long-term care policies in England, including a continuing rejection of       the Scottish model of FPC in the English context, most recently       represented in the Dilnot report of 2011 Fairer Care Funding.
The       team contributed input, through JRF events to the `Caring Choices' UK wide       debates on paying for care which reported in 2008 on `The Future of Care       Funding'14.
This initiative was focused on informing and       stimulating public debate on the future costs of care and how these should       be met: the JRF document which fed it (Paying for long term care &#8212;         moving forward15) cites our research on the lessons of       the FPC policy.
The follow-up research on expenditure on domiciliary care in Wales was       instrumental in the Welsh Assembly's decision not to implement FPC for       older people in Wales in 200916.
The research team gave expert       evidence to the Northern Ireland government based on their findings in       200717: this was reported to the Minister and was instrumental       in the decision not to provide FPC to the over 65s in Northern Ireland,       announced by Michael McGimpsey in 200918.
More recently, the team has developed the research, using microsimulation       modelling to examine the future costs of self-directed support in       Scotland.
The research has informed the new legislation in this area       through the Scottish Parliament implementing self-directed support,       potentially affecting 100,000 service users across the country19       (Social Care (Self-directed Support (Scotland) Act 2013).
In May 2012,       Bell contributed to and Rummery addressed the Health and Sport Committee       on the subject of the research, informing the progress of the legislation.
Records of the Committee discussion on 8th May 2012:20 quote Bell,       particularly in relation to the need for caution about costs, and the       Committee report July 2012:21 cites evidence received from Stirling       University (Rummery's address) and from Bell.
The Scottish Government 2012       Social Care (Self Directed Support) (Scotland) Bill Explanatory Notes,       Financial Memorandum includes extensive reference to the research.
