     The reach of the impact has extended from the initial work in West       Lothian to involve service providers, especially of health and social care       services, across Europe, as described below.
The significance of the       impact relates to the need to deliver care and support for an ageing       population in the context of constrained resources.
The huge interest in       the contribution that telehealthcare can make to this international       challenge relates both to its economic benefit and to its ability to       support people to live independently at home in the heart of their       families and communities, both of which were evidenced in the original       West Lothian work.
A key issue with telehealthcare is that large scale       rollouts are comparatively rare: West Lothian remains one of very few       internationally, and barriers to large scale roll out have included       uncertainty about how to make decisions.
The MAST manual7       provides now proven support for such decision making, as we describe       below.
The West Lothian evaluation8 has had local, national and       international impact.
Locally the work informed the telehealthcare       programme in West Lothian - by 2012, 112,000 people had received the       service, 2,500 people had been discharged from hospital earlier, 8,700       unplanned hospital admissions and 3,800 carehome admissions had been       avoided (Source: West Lothian performance statistics).
The formative and       summative analysis provided in the research informed the development of       the programme, for example establishing the need for early intervention       and supporting the `mainstreaming' approach whereby a basic package of       technology was made universally available.
Internationally, the evaluation has brought prominence to telehealthcare       in West Lothian, and Stirling regularly hosts international visitors       wanting to review the system for potential implementation in their own       countries and seeking advice on their upcoming telecare innovations; most       recently Lind&#229;s (Norway - 2012) and nine Danish municipalities (2012).
The       visitors habitually attend West Lothian and the University, where we have       a demonstration suite for telehealthcare which is part of our Dementia       Services Development Centre (see below).
Lind&#229;s municipality, following       their visit to Stirling and West Lothian and informed by our evaluation,       are currently developing a telehealthcare system.
Further evidence of the       continuing importance of our work is that we are currently partners in the       EU Northern Peripheries Programme funded `Remodem'9 service       development project, relating to the development of services for people       with dementia and their families and communities in remote Northern       Europe.
In Remodem, providers in municipalities in Norrbotten (Sweden),       Naervikid (Faroe Islands), Sermersooq (Greenland), Shetland Islands and       Eilean Siar (Scotland) are developing and delivering a template of       dementia care for remote areas.
Our role, built on our research expertise,       is to provide the evidence base to support the developments and to provide       formative evaluation of the services.
Our research in West Lothian and the depth of knowledge and experience of       telehealthcare that came with it engendered our participation in the       Methotelemed project, which developed the MAST methodology which supports       decision making about telehealthcare adoption10.
MAST is now       being used across Europe to inform decision making about telehealthcare       rollouts.
The following organisations have adopted MAST: the British       Thoracic Society; Recherche Clinique Sant&#233; Publique (Paris); Basque Office       for Health Technology Assessment; the Danish Regions in their Telemedicine       Strategy (corroboration below)11.
At EU level, a major implementation project is in progress using MAST.
Renewing Health12, (completing 18 trials), is delivering `large       scale, real-life testbeds' for telehealthcare, using MAST as the common       assessment approach The project involves service providing authorities in       Italy, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Spain, Finland, Greece, Austria and       Germany.
As well as her authorship of MAST, Bowes has provided expert       input to the work of Renewing Health on patient perspectives (Berlin 2010)       and on qualitative assessment of ethical and societal issues in relation       to telehealthcare (Treviso 2012).
In Scotland, Bowes is a member of the National Telehealth and Telecare       Advisory Board: this body provides advice to Scottish Government on       telehealthcare strategy for NHS and local authorities.
Currently, the       Board is involved in delivering the TSB funded DALLAS (Delivering Assisted       Living at Scale) programme of telehealthcare called `Living it up', which       is rolling out inclusionary communications and telehealthcare support       across Scotland13.
Wider impacts of our work are demonstrated in the influencing, education       and training work of the Dementia Services Development Centre (DSDC),       which draws on our research findings both specifically and generally.
DSDC       provides a route for knowledge exchange with policy makers, service       commissioners and service providers, increasing the impact of research       undertaken at the University.
Our technology research has enabled DSDC to       develop its international reputation and expertise in the field of       assistive technology, and telehealthcare.
The purpose built Iris Murdoch       Building houses a demonstration suite exhibiting technological devices and       demonstration samples provided by technology companies.
In 2011 alone over       7000 people from many different countries including Malaysia, Australia,       Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan, Germany, Netherlands, Malta and       Scandinavia visited the suite and these included politicians, service       commissioners, service providers, professionals and practitioners from all       sectors, people with dementia and their carers.
Visitors report that       seeing the technology in action allows them to think about its relevance       where they work or live and helps with implementation.
