     This research has achieved global reach and significance.
The results of       Birchall and Simmons'       third ESRC-funded project began to be disseminated in 2008, and these       confirmed their earlier       work that had argued that the co-operative form of business should be       taken seriously as a vehicle       for poverty reduction in low-income countries.
Through a report for the UK       Co-operative College,       the evidence presented helped promote a change of policy in DfID towards       working with co-operatives; support for the College's work in Africa followed through a       rolling programme of       financial support (evaluated by Simmons).
Our framework for understanding       the `co-operative       reform process' informed the work of the International Co-operative       Alliance and Co-operatives UK       in developing a kite marque for co-operatives, promoting the updating of       co-operative laws, and       providing advice to governments on appropriate forms of regulation.
In       Serbia, Simmons helped       develop a national strategy for agricultural co-operatives and gave       evidence to government       ministries (Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance,       Ministry of Agriculture), a       formal working group on the new draft co-operative law, aid agencies (such       as USAID and UNDP)       and local NGOs.
In 2008, Birchall was invited to speak to the UN Commission for Social       Development annual       conference on `Reducing poverty through employment generation: the role of       co-operatives' in       New York.
He was invited to give a keynote speech at the award of the       Sigillum Magnum (great       seal) of Bologna University to Ivano Barberini, President of the       International Co-operative Alliance.
This honour is usually reserved for popes and prime ministers, and the       award to the leader of the       co-operative movement was a further sign of the growing appreciation of       the significance of       cooperatives.
Barberini asked Birchall to give the speech in recognition       that his research was       having a direct and continuing impact on the policies and practices of the       International Co-operative Alliance.
In 2009, Birchall was invited by the ILO to write a       report on the resilience of co-operatives in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.
The Resilience         of the Co-operative         Business Model in times of crisis (2009, with Lou Hammond Ketilson)       was also published in Italian,       Mizo and Greek.
Such was the impact of this report worldwide that the ILO commissioned a       follow-up report on       financial co-operatives entitled Resilience in a Downturn: the power of         financial co-operatives.
Since launch in April 2013, such is the demand for access to its analysis       of the financial crisis and       its aftermath that it has already been translated into Spanish, Korean,       French and Greek.
In 2009, Birchall was invited to be a member of an expert group that met       at the UN in New York to       discuss the idea of an International Year of Co-operatives.
The experts       agreed that it was Birchall       and Simmons' work that had made the proposal possible by raising the       profile of co-operatives and       showing their potential.
Birchall wrote the Group's report that became       part of the Director-General's       annual report to the UN, and led directly to the decision to declare 2012       the International Year of       Co-operatives.
The year was an outstanding success.
It included       international conferences in       Manchester and Quebec, each attended by around 10,000 co-operative members       and supporters.
90 member governments prepared a plan for the Year, including events,       conferences, and the       development of new policies and national legislation to support       co-operatives.
The Year has, in       turn, led to a 10-year `Co-operative Blueprint' for further work by the       International Co-operative       Alliance (which cites Birchall and Simmons).
