     Building on the 2003 Design for Patient Safety report, a number of       research projects at the RCA have had extensive impact on professional       stakeholders and the wider public.
Understanding public service provision     It is estimated that one in ten hospital patients suffer some form of       unintended harm, at huge cost to the NHS (WHO 2013).
This situation is due       in large part to traditional, discipline-specific approaches to design for       patient safety.
By researching and piloting a new multidisciplinary       process through the EPSRC-funded DOME study and others, and by widely       disseminating that process, the RCA research as cited in Section 2 has       contributed significantly to improving awareness and understanding the       importance of the ways in which a key public service &#8212; healthcare &#8212; is       provided.
The DOME project was widely disseminated to professional and public       audiences via international symposia (including a 90-minute workshop at       the world's largest patient safety conference, ISQua, 2010, and a keynote       at The King's Fund annual conference 2011, London) and media coverage       (including a feature on the BBC Health website &lt;http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-16812134&gt;).
Five design innovations arising from the project were showcased in a       touring exhibition funded by the European Commission, which visited the       RCA Galleries, the Royal College of Surgeons Hunterian Museum, London and       the Pontio Centre, University of Bangor, North Wales.
Thought leaders and       policymakers attended the private views and accompanying presentations.
The impact on the awareness of the importance of design for patient safety       is evident in an editorial article in the world-renowned journal The       Lancet: `The DOME project suggests a pragmatic approach to care that is       efficient, patient-centred, safe and &#8212; in its own way &#8212; beautiful' [s5.1].
The Director of Museums and Archives at the Royal College of Surgeons       confirmed that the exhibition engaged stakeholders and the public in       future directions for surgery [s5.2].
A similar strategy was adopted for the redesign of the emergency       ambulance, undertaken in collaboration with Imperial College, the       University of the West of England, London Ambulance Service and NHS       London.
A full-size mobile demonstrator unit embodying research principles       was selected and exhibited by the Design Museum as one of its Designs of       the Year (2012).
International media coverage for the project channelled       vehicle manufacturer and healthcare provider interest to aid the       translation into commercial reality.
The BBC2 Culture Show (average       800,000 viewers) covered work at HHCD, using the project as an exemplar.
There was also coverage on BBC London News and BBC World Health Show.
This       media coverage guaranteed public understanding of the importance of design       for patient safety [s5.3].
The Design Bugs Out (2009), Design for Patient Dignity (2010), and       Reducing Violence and Aggression in A&amp;E (2011) projects have all       affected various elements of public health service provision.
They also       received extensive media coverage, opened national debate about our health       system and were widely adopted.
The A&amp;E violence solutions are       currently being piloted by three UK health trusts [s5.4], and a design to       improve the practice of regularly changing cannulae to reduce infections       is widely available [s5.5].
Impact on practice and policy     A series of publications (from 2006 onwards) detailing best practice in       the design of healthcare graphics, packaging and equipment was produced       with the NPSA.
These provided clear guidance to healthcare bodies       including the Department of Health and primary care trusts, winning a       Design Management Europe Award for `best management of design in a public       or non-profit organisation' [s5.6].
Beneficiaries include the design community (giving unambiguous and       detailed guidance), procurement (articulating their requirements) and       staff and patients (improving patient safety).
An independent review of       the NPSA's medication outputs (carried out by York Health Economics       Consortium) stated that `The design recommendations for packaging are       attributed with having made a significant contribution to safer dispensing       and administration' [s5.7].
Commercial benefit     The RCA's multidisciplinary approach to patient safety has sought to       involve business and suppliers at the earliest stages of development.
Research as cited in Section 2 has had commercial impact, creating a       revenue stream for manufacturers, eg a central design output of the DOME       project is the CareCentre, a bedside design containing equipment needed to       improve safety and hygiene.
UK manufacturer Bristol Maid was involved in       the latter stages of the research and now produces and sells the       CareCentre, in use in UK hospitals [s5.8].
Clinical trials have shown that       the design improves the quality and safety of care on the front line       [s5.9].
Bristol Maid saw the value of opening up a new market and entered       the design into the Building Better Healthcare Awards, receiving       nominations in two categories.
Bristol Maid is also commercialising the HHCD's redesign of the hospital       resuscitation trolley, the Resus:station.
This has been through a clinical       trial funded by the Wellcome Trust and has been proven to enhance clinical       performance when attending a cardiac arrest [s5.10].
Manufacturers have       also been closely involved with the Design Bugs Out and ambulance redesign       projects &#8212; and the business of extracting economic value from the research       continues.
