     The RCA's research, development and delivery of Inclusive Design has       achieved significant and far-reaching impact, as follows:     Public discourse     Research on Inclusive Design as cited in Section 2 has had a major impact       on the public discourse on design &#8212; influencing the methods and ethics of       the design profession (e.g.
Design Business Association and Royal       Designers for Industry Inclusive Design Champion), and including       previously marginalised groups, such as older and disabled people, in the       design process.
The building of a global network of academics and       practitioners in support of the `Include' conference series (one of the       results of the i~design research) has had a marked impact on the field.
In       2011, for example, the `Include' conference at the RCA, London, published       the work of 120 academics from 29 countries, and attracted sponsorship       from BT and Audi; and in 2013, the conference extended its global reach       with `Include Asia', in partnership with the Hong Kong Design Centre       [s5.1].
The DBA Inclusive Design Challenges of 2008, 2009 and 2010 (the       RCA's knowledge-exchange platform for professional designers) attracted 15       leading design firms to develop new concepts related to dementia, ageing       and sedentary lives [s5.2].
In February 2010, Inclusive Design was the       specialist topic on the BBC Radio 4 You and Yours programme, recorded at       the Design Museum [s5.3].
The programme followed an Inclusive Design       Roundtable held in the BT Tower to brief the media on the business       benefits of Inclusive Design.
In April 2010, a major exhibition, `Trading       Places', was held in the V&amp;A Sackler Centre to mark 10 years of the       DBA Inclusive Design Challenge, prior to a tour of venues in Japan.
This       large-scale interaction with the design profession has used many of the       tools developed by the RCA's Inclusive Design research [see Section 2].
Policymaking     RCA research has also fed into policymaking at a number of levels.
From       the starting point of defining the term for the UK government and writing       a British Standard in Managing Inclusive Design, the RCA Helen Hamlyn       Centre for Design has issued design guidance on housing design for       autistic adults (based on Inclusive Design principles as cited in Section       2), which has been formally adopted as policy by the Welsh Government       [s5.4].
Findings on design for an ageing workforce from the Welcoming       Workplace study have been written into the BCO (British Council for       Offices) Guide to Specification [s5.5], defining the standard for the       industry, and into a guidance note from the Parliamentary Office of       Science and Technology (2011) [s5.6].
Research into how visually impaired       people navigate the streetscape has been incorporated into guidance by       CABE, the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment (Sightline       2010) [s5.7].
Economic prosperity     Section 2 showed how our research has focused strongly on business and       industry, leveraging economic value from Inclusive Design principles.
In       2010 a new version of the www.inclusivedesigntoolkit.com website,       sponsored by BT, was introduced as part of i~design research.
Since 2008,       the HHCD has generated economic impact by project engagement with more       than 40 business organisations through its Helen Hamlyn Research       Associates programme for new RCA graduates [s5.8].
Several innovations       have reached the market, including new designs for Osaka Gas in Japan and       Nordan in Norway.
Inclusive Design research has also led to an extensive       programme of executive education for business and government, including       the Kinnarps, Procter and Gamble, Samsung (South Korea), Stannah, UK and       Hong Kong Civil Service, Blackberry and Vodafone.
The Nordic region has       been a particular focus for the RCA's work on the business value of       Inclusive Design: a collaboration with the Norwegian Design Council led to       a joint conference, `Innovation for All', in 2010 and the `European       Business Workshops in Inclusive Design' (for 130 people) in 2012.
Alongside these events, which were both staged in Oslo, a major book of       tools for business was published, co- written by Rama Gheerawo, Deputy       Director of the HHCD [s5.9].
Education     Finally, the RCA's work in Inclusive Design has had an impact on the       direction of curriculum development in UK design education generally       outside the institution.
Building on the RCA's New Design for Old brief in       the RSA Student Design Awards, which first flagged the importance of       Inclusive Design to the sector, the HHCD has made its methods and case       studies widely available to students and tutors, most notably the       Designing with People website created as part of i~design3, which gives       practical guidance on the activities, ethics and methods of co-design       [s5.10].
Setting and sponsoring Inclusive Design briefs in national       student design awards (for example D&amp;AD 2012) and giving guest       lectures in design schools around the UK have contributed further to the       impact in education.
More recently, workshops and expert design courses       have been held in a number of global locations, e.g.
Norwegian Design       Council, Oslo (2012) and Hong Kong Design Centre (2013).
