     (i) Impact on Public Policy       Professor Savulescu's work has had a direct influence on public policy.
In       2010, he organised a workshop entitled `Human Enhancement and Genetic       Selection', at St Cross College Oxford, for the Norwegian Directorate of       Health, which is responsible for applying and interpreting laws and       regulations in the health and care sector in Norway.
The NDH requested       that this workshop be held for its National Bioethics Advisory Committee       and for representatives from its advisory group, the former comprising       experts in medicine, law, and science, the latter comprising staff from       universities and university clinics with expertise in these fields and in       bioethics.
In a subsequent e-mail to Professor Savulescu, Anne Forus, a       senior adviser, wrote: `Our group found the visit in Oxford and the       discussion with you and your research fellows very inspiring...
The main       impact for the further work of our group, i.e.
in our evaluation on the       Norwegian Act on medicinal use of biotechnology, has been the approach       your group presented for dealing with ethical challenges.
This has been       taken on board in our further wor' [1].
Later that year, Professor Savulescu's joint article `Synthetic Biology       and the Ethics of Knowledge' was cited in The U.S. Presidential         Commission on Bioethics Briefing Book[i].
This       commission was to consider the scientific, social, and moral implications       of new biotechnological developments.
The book states, in the context of       the citation, that, after careful deliberation, the Commission, in line       with Professor Savulescu, `was not persuaded by concerns that synthetic       biology fails to respect the proper relationship between humans and       nature'.
It also refers, in the same context, to `the challenges of       defining "nature" or "natural" in this context, particularly in light of       humans' long history interacting with and affecting other species,       humankind, and the environment.'
The same article was also cited in a       subsequent report of The U.S. Presidential Commission for the Study of         Bioethical Issues, this time to help counter concerns that the       creation of new organisms could have unexpected adverse consequences.
Professor Savulescu gave two lectures at the Australian Leadership       Retreat in Queensland in 2010[ii].
This retreat is a       unique, invitation-only forum for leaders in the business, political, and       academic communities to exchange ideas about Australia's defining       challenges.
Professor Savulescu urged the case for human enhancement, and       was cited in the subsequent report as exploring `a new dimension to       individual resilience'.
The report went on to state that `a resilient       society must continuously adapt to its environment' and, in the light of       Professor Savulescu's arguments among others, considered ways in which       Australia's healthcare stands in urgent need of reform.
(ii) Impact on Business and Industry       In 2010, Professor Savulescu delivered the keynote speech at a conference       entitled `Human Enhancement&#8212;Biotechnology in Sports', in Oslo, organised       by The Norwegian Biotechnology Advisory Board in collaboration with       Anti-Doping Norway: this conference was held for the benefit of athletes,       scientists, trainers, and the general public.
His views have been sought       more generally by business and industry: for example, he has spoken to       several programmes at the Said Business School in Oxford, including more       than one programme for the State Farm Insurance Company and one for       SABMiller, and he has addressed a workshop led by Richard Branson on       Necker Island in 2011.
(iii) Impact Through Teaching Material and Through Engagement With the         Public       Professor Savulescu has made his ideas available through participation in       events at the London Science Museum and the Wellcome Collection: in the       latter case, an online talk of his is available on their website[iii].
The Wellcome Collection has also produced teaching resources, designed for       secondary school pupils, in which extensive use is made of his ideas[iv].
His work has been disseminated through books, journal and newspaper       articles, public lectures, podcasts, and media performances (including an       appearance on the BBC's Moral Maze in 2008 and a 2010 interview by       Richard Dawkins for BBC Radio 4's `The Age of the Genome', a very       high-profile three part series presented by Dawkins about the science of       genomes and resulting ethical issues).
There were several national       newspaper and on-line media reports on a conference entitled `Science,       Ethics and Policy Challenges of Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Gametes'       that Professor Savulescu organised in Hinxton in April 2008[v].
Recognition of Professor Savulescu's position at the forefront of public       debate in this field was indicated by his selection as winner of the       `Thinkers' category of The Weekend Australian's top one hundred       Emerging Leaders awards in May 2009: this list is devised as a list of       Australians who are on the rise or newly established in roles of influence       and leadership[vi].
His ideas were discussed in the Sunday         Herald Sun in 2011[vii].
All of this has       contributed to the public awareness of the various questions that he has       addressed and the various ideas that he has advanced.
The public has had all sorts of opportunities to register its engagement       with Professor Savulescu's ideas.
In 2010, he led the University of Oxford       Online Debate proposing the motion: `Performance enhancing drugs should be       allowed in sport'[viii].
The debate proved very popular,       with around 7500 visits, and the public posted comments throughout the       debate which closed with a public vote (18% in favour, 82% against).
He       also contributed to the `Intelligence Squared Debate', first in New York       in 2008, then in London in 2009 (this appeared on YouTube), and finally in       Sydney in 2012[ix].
The last of these debates involved a       pre- and post-debate poll of the audience's opinion on whether there is       anything wrong with designer babies.
There was a shift from 19.9% in       favour of Professor Savulescu's view, 36.7% undecided, and 43.3% against,       to 47% in favour, 10% undecided, and 43% against.
There was a similar pre- and 	  post-debate poll after a debate on whether it is acceptable for       athletes to take performance-enhancing drugs, broadcast as the `IQ2'       debate on ABC and on BBC World, to which Professor Savulescu contributed[x].
This time there was a shift from 17.4% in favour of his view, 17.3%       undecided, and 65.3% against, to 33.5% in favour, 6.7% undecided, and       59.7% against.
Several of Professor Savulescu's newspaper and journal articles, in which       he summarizes his views, have been accompanied by extensive online blogs       debating the views[xi].
Examples include: a 2012 New         York Times opinion piece on doping; a 2012 New Scientist       article, written jointly with Anders Sandberg, on enhancing love; and a       2012 article in Australia's The Punch on gene selection (the blog       in this case attracted nearly 150 comments).
Similar debate followed       extensive reference to his views in an article by Ian Steadman in Wired       in 2012 and a feature on his views in The Huffington Post in 2012.
Professor Savulescu also has over 1600 followers on Twitter, where he       engages with the general public in discussion of his views.
Among the highly distinguished public lectures and other public       presentations that Professor Savulescu has given on these issues are: a       contribution to the debate `Do We Have the Right to Improve Upon Human       Nature?'
at the Smith Foundation, in New York, in 2008; two lectures at       the World Economic Forum in Davos, in 2009; the Fulvio Guerrini lecture in       Torino, in 2009; a lecture to the Royal Institution in London, in 2009; a       lecture at the Festival of Dangerous Ideas in Sydney, in 2009; a lecture       to Consilium 2010, a Davos-style event for business and political leaders       in Queensland, in 2010; a keynote address at `Visionary Education 2010'       and participation in a subsequent public seminar, in Melbourne, in 2010;       and a keynote address at `The Posthuman Condition', at Aarhus University,       in 2010.
