     Dunne's formulation of Critical Design contributes to the enrichment of       cultural life and public discourse through exhibitions and exhibits       exploring the social, cultural and ethical implications of emerging       technology and science.
By moving `upstream' in the cycle of design for manufacture and exploring       ideas before they become products or even technologies, then translating       them into fictional products, designers, industry, researchers and the       public can explore, discuss and debate the possible consequences of       technological applications before they happen.
Dunne and colleagues use       design to pose 'what if' questions about emerging technologies in order to       explore what their impact might be on our everyday lives &#8212; both utopian       and dystopian.
They use design to help identify preferable futures rather       than trying to predict the future, or ignore it.
In this way, Critical       Design provides new forms of expression for complex issues and grounds       them in everyday situations that allow viewers to imagine how science       research might affect their own lives, both positively and negatively.
Critical Design and cultural life     Critical Design research at the RCA as cited in Sections 2 and 3 has       influenced the methods and ideas of design practice, through inclusion in       major design exhibitions, professional conferences, expert talks in       companies, and coverage in the press, TV and film.
Critical Design has featured prominently in exhibitions aimed at       increasing public understanding of design's interface with science and       introducing new design ideas, methods and approaches to the public.
For       example, in 2008 MoMA dedicated a section of its seminal `Design and the       Elastic Mind' exhibition to Design for Debate, which included work by 21       RCA Faculty and former students.
The exhibition was visited by 'over half       a million people from all over the world' [s5.1: Senior Curator,       Architecture and Design, MoMA].
Examples of Critical Design from Design       Interactions researchers are in several key museum collections including       those in MoMA, the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum, and Frac Ile-de-France       and Fnac (Fond national d'art contemporain) in France.
Through invited expert talks in, and collaboration with, companies,       Critical Design has had substantial impact on attitudes to design's       potential within research labs.
`The critical and speculative design       traditions &#8212; pioneered and refined by Dunne and Raby ... &#8212; have been used       to shape a more sophisticated understanding of design and design research       in our organisation.
Most explicitly, this has contributed to a research       competency in Microsoft Research, one that has sought to develop a nuanced       view of what design and research can be in the technology industry and       R&amp;D. This has been borne out not just in individual studies and       project work, but also reflected in our overall practice' [s5.2: Microsoft       Research Cambridge].
Critical Design is now accepted globally as a valuable design approach by       museums, professional designers, industry research labs and the media.
Its       impact on design practice and thinking is increasingly recognised beyond       design, in mainstream press, including newspapers (e.g.
Financial Times),       television (e.g.
the BBC's Culture Show; average 800,000 viewers) and film       (Objectified) [s5.3].
Critical Design and public discourse     Critical Design research at the RCA has had a substantial impact on       public discourse, by enhancing public understanding of major issues and       challenges posed by science and technology for individuals and society,       through exhibitions in major museums and inclusion in public museum       collections.
For example, Dunne and Raby were invited by the Wellcome Trust to curate       an exhibition, `What if ...' about design and science for their HQ Windows       which ran from January 2010 to March 2011, and was seen by `close to 2       million' passers-by, `many of whom visibly stopped to find out more about       the detail of the imaginative projects presented through this scheme'       [s5.4: Head of Public Programmes, Wellcome Collection].
`What if ...' led       to a commission by the Beijing International Design Triennial to curate an       exhibition in the National Museum of China from 28/09/-17/10/11.
This       introduced a new way of thinking about design and technology to Chinese       designers, curators, educators and the public and was visited by 800,000       people over three weeks.
In 2010, the EPSRC and Nesta commissioned researchers in the RCA Design       Interactions Department to develop 16 design proposals that applied this       approach to research projects supported by the EPSRC (RCA researchers       James Auger, Onkar Kular, Nina Pope, Noam Toran).
The research ranged from       renewable energy devices and security technologies to the emerging fields       of synthetic biology and quantum computing.
The exhibition of the project       at the RCA (15-21/03/10) was billed by the EPSRC as, `offering a powerful       insight into how today's research might transform our experience of the       world'.
For the EPSRC, `The exhibition prompted a general debate on the       impact of science which took place with a different audience to that which       EPSRC usually reaches' [s5.5].
Approximately 1,300 people visited the       exhibition, which was covered by The Guardian, Wired and Design Week, and       selected work was exhibited at MoMA (2011).
It also served as a platform       for exploring how design could affect science, specifically through a       one-day event at Nesta where designers and scientists exchanged ideas       about collaboration.
`As a direct result of such publicity [generated by       the project] we have been approached by industry and academic partners to       discuss collaboration opportunities' [s5.6: Professor of Computer Science,       Aberystwyth University].
