     Impact 1: Accessible, user-centred transport.
The impact of the       taxi design is represented by the longevity and adaptation of Harrow's       original concept and by the recent award of a research contract by a major       international taxi manufacturer.
The TX1 model London Taxi (Harrow working       for Pentagram) was the first to address accessibility, setting the agenda       for all future models.
It continues in use in London and many other       cities, alongside its evolutions, the TXII and TX4.
Cumulative production       total for the three models was over 31,300 at 2012 [s5.1].
The company was       acquired by Geely of China; the London Mayor has highlighted the key       features of the design as a `world famous, fully accessible and instantly       recognisable vehicle synonymous with London' [s5.2].
Geely will invest       &#163;150m in the Coventry factory and develop a TX5 model.
Following this       work, Harrow was approached by Hexagon, a Turkish automotive manufacturer       (&#163;216m turnover in 2010), for research towards a highly accessible and       iconic new taxi.
Two of five work packages (value &#163;58,000 each) have       already been agreed and begun (total value &#163;290,605) [s5.3].
The benefits       identified by the client include (1) understanding of the specific       cultural dimensions of the London and UK taxi markets, with an influence       extending beyond the UK; (2) expertise in comprehensive inclusive design,       including, but not limited to, functional accessibility.
Impact 2: Future visions of public service vehicles and systems.
The impacts lie in the capability of two companies to design for the       future.
Kunur and Evans's research benefited Capoco, which has       maintained a 60-65% share of the UK city bus market over the last 15       years.
The company's city bus products have outsold the combined imports       from Mercedes, Volvo, Scania, DAF, MAN, Iveco and Renault by a factor of       2:1 over the past decade.
Capoco also carries out design projects for the       leading manufacturers in North America, Asia (India and China) and Africa.
The research helped position it as a company with a future vision focused       on systemic approaches.
The benefits identified by Capoco include: (1)       dealing with issues beyond the normal remit of its in-house team, helping       the firm to envision strategy for the next 25 years; (2) enabling it to       demonstrate the future potential of existing technologies when combined       through innovative design; (3) creating exposure and esteem for Capoco       internationally, for example, the selection of Mobilicity for the Michelin       Design Challenge, where the project won the Outstanding Design Award; the       work was included in an exhibition at the Science Museum in 2006 &lt;http://goo.gl/Fg2Nme&gt;;       publications and broadcasts outlining the project's concept to a receptive       public; (4) it strengthened Capoco's commercial ties with Optare; (5)       Capoco describes the RCA work as `a perfect calling card to our global       clients around the world', augmenting the reputation of its past products       by using Mobilicity to assure new clients of Capoco's innovative edge       [s5.4].
Kunur and Gheerawo also contributed to a highly praised handbook       used by the Norwegian Design Council as part of its training courses for       business (see s5.5 for testimonials with affiliations).
Evans's research       led to a new vehicle by Optare that enhanced the firm's       capabilities and led to new projects.
In 2010, Optare became part of Ashok       Leyland, one of the top five global bus manufacturers.
India's largest       commercial vehicle conglomerate, the Hinduja Group, bought a 26% stake,       increased to 75.1% in 2012.
Using the existing Optare Alero as a basis,       Evans developed a purpose-designed community-service vehicle (CSV) which       the company deemed `an interesting and viable vehicle solution to provide       essential services to the community [...] a replacement to the rather       archaic mobile libraries and health clinics that were operating at the       time'.
As a result of the project, Optare has subsequently developed its       share of the CSV market and successfully produced several other community       (non-bus) vehicles.
Optare was also able to introduce a new model in 2012:       the Bonito minibus designed for local communities and offering full       wheelchair accessibility [s5.6].
Impact 3: Innovation in vehicle design for changing technologies.
Porcher's research with Visteon has had long-term benefits for the       research group and the company.
Visteon, a leading global automotive       corporation, supplies vehicle manufacturers through a family of       businesses.
Generating sales of more than $12 billion in 2012, including       unconsolidated operations, Visteon has facilities in 28 countries and       employs approximately 55,000 people.
Porcher, through his user-centred       rethinking of the instrument panel, enabled the company to explore and       demonstrate in-car information and controls of the future, both to inform       internal research and to demonstrate its forward-thinking to customers.
This has had long-term benefits for the company, providing a basis for the       driver information reorganisation in subsequent concepts (X-Wave,       C-Beyond, e-Bee).
The company confirms that Porcher's input was integral       to building a clear vision of the context of use, now and in the future       [s5.7 and s5.8].
Ecotricity acknowledges the special contribution       of Stevens to high-performance electric vehicles.
The outcome was a       vehicle that took the UK electric land speed record in 2012 [s5.9].
The       company's understanding of the harsh environmental conditions under which       very high-output electrical systems operate was considerably advanced by       this project [s5.9].
Stevens contributed to `master classes by eight       British celebrity innovators' in a tour of China at the invitation of the       British Council (2009) [s5.10].
