     Because of their excellent abrasion and tensile properties coupled with       relatively low cost, polypropylene fibres are widely used in manufacturing       upholstery fabrics for domestic and contract (eg office, hotels, etc)       furniture and automotive floor coverings.
Flammability is a significant       issue of priority for all sectors of the textile industry due to public       safety awareness and stringent regulations controlling the use of products       used in public buildings and transport, for example.
The disappointingly       low levels of achievable flame retardancy, coupled with their ease of       melting, severely limit the use of PP yarns in a number of FR       applications, however.
Polypropylene is difficult to flame retard because:       1) its physical and chemical structures is not suitable for a facile       incorporation of reactive flame retardants, 2) high loadings (5-20% w/w)       of additives are necessary to confer flame retardance which often both       creates processing problems and reduced mechanical properties.
The research carried at Bolton comprised both a fundamental investigation       of the underlying fire retardant science coupled with a full analysis of       the company's manufacturing process and related fibre/yarn/fabric       structural variables.
This has enabled Camira fabrics to produce a       commercial range of contract upholstery fabrics having consistent fire       test performance under the brand name Perfentex.
Within this range and in       particular, the Citadel and Chateau Plus, have achieved a higher       specification of flame retardancy than other commercially available       upholstery fabrics which has enabled Camira to develop sales into new       geographical and commercial sectors.
Since the development of their       improved fabrics, sales amounting to &#163;15,157,374 to date have been       achieved.
The fabrics have been used in public arenas and buildings       throughout Europe, increasing the export market for FR polypropylene       products over the last eight years significantly.
In proportion the export       sales of these products has been on average 50% of total sales of value       &#163;15,157,374.These furnishing fabrics can pass the required commercial       flame retardant tests (notably the French "M-test") and hence, can protect       public at large from fire (Ref 2 in Section 5).
This has also helped       declining UK textile industry in keeping a competitive edge against far       eastern competition.
From research point of view, the research has created further interest.
The EPSRC/DSTL project of &#163;520K (2003-2008) developed high performance,       thermally stable and flame-retardant fibres from polymer nanocomposite       materials.
Solvay (formerly Rhodia UK) a major UK flame retardant       manufacturer and Camira fabrics have played an active part in this project       and benefited from the know-how.
The project has generated 22 peer       reviewed publications, 2 MSc theses, and 16 conference presentations.
The       research was mentioned in EPSRC Newsline (see Refs 3 and 4 in Section 5).
A key variable in optimising nanoparticle activity was found to be the       need to maximise their degree of dispersion.
Subsequently, the US Army       Research Office funded ($50k, 2009-2010) a project to improve the       dispersion of nanoparticles and flame retardant by using ultrasonification       in the polymer melt.
This research, which has been extended by a PhD       student has generated two papers to date.
The director of Camira fabrics, Ms Cheryl Kindness registered as PhD by       publication and used the knowledge gained for commercial exploitation.
