     The underpinning research described in this report has impacted       significantly on the lives of a       range of people by enhancing the hygiene and patient care through       prevention and treatment.
The       venous leg ulcer research is highly significant mainly because it enhances       the quality of life of       middle-aged and older people to boost the cost saving for the NHS, which       is crucial in the current       economic climate.
The novel single-layer bandage replaces the standard       four layer system.
The leg ulcer takes a long time to heal which can cause distress to       patients and also the treatment       cost is high to the NHS.
About 1% of the adult population suffers from       active ulceration during their       lifetime.
The prevalence of venous leg ulcer increases with age, from 1%       within the adult       population to 3.6% in the over 65 age group.
The total cost to the NHS for       venous leg ulcer       treatment is about &#163;650 million per annum, which is 1-2% of the total       healthcare expenditure.
Cost       per patient has recently been estimated to be between &#163;1200 and &#163;1400.
The       annual cost for       treating venous leg ulceration in the USA is between $1.9 billion and $2.5       billion and in Western       Europe it is 1% of the total annual healthcare budget.
It has been well established that compression therapy by making use of       compression bandages is       the `Gold Standard' for the treatment and prevention of venous leg ulcer       as there is no medication       or surgery to cure the ulcer.
In the UK, a multilayer system (four layer       bandaging system) is widely       used whilst in Europe a two layer regime is popular.
With the above background, it is stressed that the impact and benefits       accrued from Bolton's       venous leg ulcer research are enormous both nationally and worldwide and       are highly significant.
The market revenues are expected to increase significantly after the       launch of the novel 3D single-layer       bandage because it offers cost-effective single-layer therapy, which would       replace the current       practice of multilayer bandage systems with enhanced functional properties       for treating venous leg       ulcers.
Current competitors provide a multilayer compression system and       not a single company       currently offers a single-layer compression system.
The research is       considered to be revolutionary       because currently no 3D single-layer bandage has been listed in the `Drug       Tariff' for use in the UK.
The novel compression regime is also much lighter, comfortable and can be       laundered up to 50       times.
Since the commercial exploitation of novel compression therapy deals with       people's healthcare,       the ultimate beneficiaries would be middle-aged and elderly patients       particularly women who are       more prone to developing venous leg ulcers.
It is anticipated that       patients would feel utmost       comfort by having a single-layer bandage system, instead of multilayer       bandages, on their limbs.
It       should be noted that the bandages stay on the limb for several weeks or       months because a typical       venous leg ulcer is a chronic condition which takes a long time to heel.
In contrast to the 3D single-layer       regimen, four layer regimes are bulky and cause discomfort to patients       because they are too       cumbersome.
Additional benefits to patients with single-layer bandages over       multilayer bandages are: a) they are       highly breathable; b) they provide good resilience and cushioning effects       due to the 3D cell       structure; and c) offering simplicity of application.
Nurses, doctors and       other hospital staff will also       receive benefits through increased understanding of innovations and novel       practices accruing as a       direct result of this single-layer therapy.
The novel single-layer 3D       bandage would subsequently       reduce leg ulcer healing times as well as nursing time and thus offers       financial and technological       benefits to the NHS and private hospitals.
In contrast to a single-layer       system, the four layer       system consumes considerable nursing time.
The current multilayer bandages       are manufactured       by using different technologies and equipment and the cost involved is       high.
In contrast, the novel       single-layer 3D bandage is manufactured using only one machine and the       production cost is       comparatively low.
Considering savings in the material and production       costs, in the nursing time       and in the time to heal the ulcers, it is estimated that a total saving of       around &#163;60 million per       annum would be realised upon the successful launch of the single-layer       compression therapy.
The       environmental aspects of this novel product are also extremely crucial.
The increased use of the       single-layer bandage, in contrast to four layer bandages, will enable the       establishment of a much       improved and efficient mode of clinical and medical waste disposal and       will result in a safer and       cleaner environment.
Other direct beneficiaries include fibre       manufacturers, medical textile product       manufacturers, supply chains, and of course medical and scientific       communities in the UK and       worldwide.
All these measures would ultimately boost the UK economy.
A       patent has been applied       for and licensed to Baltex Ltd, UK who have successfully produced the       commercial product and an       exclusive agreement has been signed with a global medical device company,       BSN Medical for       marketing the single-layer bandage worldwide.
The outcomes of the research       will pave the way for       developing future products for the treatment of varicose veins and DVT.
It       is forecast by Baltex Ltd,       UK that a revenue of &#163;100,000 in 2013 and &#163;1.0 million after three years       would be achieved.
Underpinning the above research, Dr Rajendran was invited for       presentation meetings in India and       this yielded the academic collaboration with The South India Textile       Research Association (SITRA)       and PSG College of Technology (PSGT) in India.
The University has signed a       Memorandum of       Understanding with SITRA in January 2010 which extends until July 2015.
This facilitates further       collaborative research in healthcare sector in the UK and India.
An       international conference       highlighting the healthcare and hygiene was organised jointly with PSGT in       July 2010.
The sales projections for pressure relieving cushion for the treatment       and management of pressure       sores and other diseases suffered by the wheel chair patients would be       &#163;40,000 in the first year       (2013) and &#163;5.0 million in five years.
Some of other impact indicators include 10 refereed publications, 15       conference presentations, 8       book chapters, 4 patents and career development of 6 researchers.
