     The demographic challenges of an ageing population emphasise the need for       innovative approaches to skeletal reconstruction to augment and repair       tissue lost as a consequence of implant loosening, trauma or degeneration.
What is needed is replacement of a patient's damaged skeleton with their       own bone using their own bone stem cells.
The Southampton team's work has       moved the application of skeletal stem cells from bench to clinic through       a number of multidisciplinary approaches.
We have transformed       understanding of the role of nanotopography in stem cell function and       developed protocols for the isolation, enrichment and differentiation of       skeletal stem cells from human adult and fetal tissues.
The work has       exciting potential for patient care and the manufacture of medical       components and prosthetics.
Accordingly, it has received significant       coverage in both the medical and general press.
The work has resulted in the development of strategies to apply human       skeletal stem cells for clinical application in areas of unmet need,       including in the first instance avascular necrosis and bone cysts.
Avascular necrosis can affect people of all ages (male and female),       although typically in those aged 30-60 years of age.
In the UK about 4,000       people are diagnosed with Avascular Necrosis each year.
Since 2008 the       Southampton team have successfully used skeletal stem cells to treat seven       patients with avascular necrosis of the femoral head and bone cysts, all       of whom have shown excellent clinical recovery and improved quality of       life.
The first patient in 2008 was Carl Millard, who, a year later, was       walking normally without pain and in an interview with Sky News in 2009       reported enthusiastically on his state of wellbeing [5.1].
This       work thus has the potential to reach 4,000 avascular necrosis patients in       the UK, and could then reach over 6,000 revision hip fracture patients per       year in the UK.
Amidst significant media interest [5.1, 5.2, 5.3], the team have       negotiated with industry partners Thermo Fisher Scientific and       London-based medical equipment manufacturers Smith and Nephew who are keen       to integrate the technology into their own manufacturing processes.
Development work began in 2010 in collaboration with Dr Dalby and Dr       Gadegaard at the University of Glasgow, following the filing of patents       for an Implantable Cartilaginous Tissue Repair Device, July 2009; Polymer       Blends, March 2010; and Retention of Stem Cell Phenotype, August 2010 [5.4].
Further recognition came when the team, working with Smith &amp; Nephew,       were awarded the prestigious Grand Prix Award at the Engineer Technology       and Innovation Awards 2010, in addition to the category for Medical       Technology, for a device for the isolation of skeletal stem cells for       orthopaedic clinical application.
The device provides a prototype with       potential to translate into every orthopaedic operating theatre.
Jon       Excell, editor of The Engineer and chairman of the judging panel,       said: `This was a fantastic example of cross-sector collaboration on       technology in one of the UK's key emerging technology sectors.
It could       potentially make an enormous difference to many people's lives.'
[5.5].
The team's role in taking the use of skeletal stem cells from bench to       clinic was also highlighted by UK Trade &amp; Investment in May 2010 [5.6]       and the step change in stem cell application for hip repair was noted by       Dr Chris Watkins, MRC's Translation Theme Leader, who stated "Resilience,       repair and replacement is a priority research area in the MRC's strategic       plan, `Research Changes Lives'.
This study highlights how a regenerative       approach can offer real hope in addressing a significant problem for an       ageing population."
[5.7] and reported in Stem Cells Translational       Medicine [5.8].
The team's pioneering work on the role of nanotopography in stem cell       function, cited by Nature Materials [3.1] as a landmark paper for       the last 10 years, was reported in numerous trade publications reaching       beyond academia, including Science press [5.9], Stem Cell Net       Digest [5.10], and The Engineer [5.5].
Extending the reach       further, Oreffo et al routinely run a Bone and Joint stand at the       University of Southampton's Science Week.
The March 2013 event attracted       over 3,000 members of the general public and strong press coverage, and       the team received good feedback for their stand.
