     Our research into the epidemiology of osteoporosis-related fractures has       shaped national and international policy designed to reduce the burden of       osteoporosis and is contributing to an estimated 20% decrease in fracture       incidence.
A decline of this magnitude has been documented in a recent       systematic review of the secular trends in osteoporosis-related fracture [5.1].
Additionally, this research played a key role in the establishment of the       MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit at the University of Southampton, and       contributed to recent successful bids for grant awards from Bupa       Foundation, NIHR Health Technology Assessment, and EU FP7 schemes.
Our work has informed the World Health Organisation's international       assessment of osteoporosis treatment in primary care settings, which built       on previous guidelines &#8212; also based on Southampton's underpinning       research, and still guiding practice during the REF period &#8212; by the Royal       College of Physicians.
The WHO assessment [5.2], was first       published in 2007 and has guided practice such that its main impact has       been made during the REF period: it led directly to the development of the       FRAX tool in 2008, a 10-year absolute risk calculator for osteoporosis-       related fracture risk, for which Southampton provided epidemiological data       [5.2].
Now used in over 170 countries, FRAX is established as the       international standard risk assessment tool.
Its website has more than two       million hits worldwide annually, and about one third of UK GP computers       possess FRAX software.
Our findings have also informed two NICE technology appraisals, resulting       in cost savings for the NHS estimated at &#163;1bn per year (Department of       Health figures for 2011).
TA160 and TA161 [5.3], published in       2011, set out guidelines for both the primary and secondary prevention of       osteoporosis through differing drug treatments for postmenopausal women.
We used epidemiological data to model the specific drug types best suited       to particular patients, minimising the risks of costly and ineffective       treatments.
Our research has demonstrated that widespread vitamin D       supplementation in the elderly is not cost-effective but that this       intervention should be targeted to those at greatest need.
Research also       informed RCP guidance on postmenopausal and steroid-induced osteoporosis [5.4],       published in 2002 and still the standard of care today, together with       recent National Osteoporosis Society guidance on vitamin D in clinical       practice [5.5].
Professor Cooper was a member of the RCP Guidance       Panel, NICE Guideline Development Group and WHO Expert Committee which       effected these impacts.
Our observation that maternal vitamin D status during pregnancy is linked       to childhood bone mass has led directly to a series of government       recommendations that encourage vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy       to optimise skeletal development in offspring and reduce the risk of       osteoporosis in later life.
Based on our findings, a recommendation of 400       IU (10 micrograms) of vitamin D daily during pregnancy has been made       nationally.
The Department of Health emphasises this recommendation during       pregnancy and breastfeeding throughout its 2009 edition of the Pregnancy         Book, which is distributed free to every expectant mother and parent       in the UK [5.6].
The same recommendation was made by the Food       Standards Agency in its report Eat Well, Be Well [5.7] and       by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in its       CG62 guideline for health professionals (GPs and midwives) on antenatal       care [5.8].
Additionally, it features on the NHS Choices website,       accessed by up to 400,000 visitors each day.
The research underpinning these new recommendations has led us to       institute the definitive investigation of whether maternal supplementation       with vitamin D in pregnancy will improve offspring bone development.
The       charity Arthritis Research UK has awarded us &#163;650k for a randomised       controlled trial of maternal vitamin D supplementation versus placebo, the       first such study in the world able to address this issue directly.
MAVIDOS       &#8212; Maternal Vitamin D Osteoporosis Study &#8212; is ongoing at Southampton and       will report its findings in 2014.
By randomising women to either placebo,       500 IU or 1,000 IU from 14 weeks pregnancy until delivery of the baby, the       study will determine whether the current dose of vitamin D recommended in       pregnancy delivers optimum benefit or whether it should in fact be much       higher.
The MAVIDOS study has been featured several times in local and       national media, for example Professor Cooper interviewed on ITV's       "Daybreak" in 2011; indeed the work of the unit as a whole has formed the       basis for a recent documentary series on BBC Radio 4, "The First 1000       days" [5.9].
