     Research led by the University of Southampton resulted in the       implementation of a more effective test, backed by international       anti-doping organisations, to detect GH misuse.
The test had an immediate       impact.
During its first use, at the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic       Games [5.1], the International Paralympic Committee announced       two-year suspensions for two Russian powerlifters found guilty of GH       misuse after returning a positive test [5.2, 5.3].
The effectiveness of GH-2004's new test was demonstrated almost       immediately as neither of these athletes failed the previously available       WADA test for GH misuse; this was introduced in 2004 and has a much       shorter window of opportunity of ~12 to 24 hours making in-competition       detection of GH misuse difficult.
The successful development of a test for GH has been a major goal for the       International Olympic Committee, WADA and national anti-doping agencies       for more than a decade in order to preserve the integrity of and restore       public confidence in professional sport.
WADA President John Fahey said:       "We are confident that (the new test) will prove a significant tool in the       fight against doping in sport.
It will complement the test that has been       in use since the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, the major difference being       that the anti-doping community now has a much longer detection window to       work with."
[5.4].
Although exact numbers are confidential, a significant proportion of       athletes at the London Games were tested for GH misuse using the       Southampton-led test.
The implementation of the test will not only lead to       better detection of athletes who are taking GH but crucially act as a       strong deterrent to other athletes considering taking       performance-enhancing drugs.
News of the suspension of the Russian powerlifters through the new       testing procedure generated significant global media interest, leading to       more than 500 online articles [5.5, 5.6].
As well as acting as a       deterrent, this blanket coverage serves to demonstrate to the       sports-viewing public that cheating athletes are being punished and       reassures clean athletes that cheats are not at an unfair advantage.
Andy Parkinson, UK Anti-Doping Agency (UKAD) Chief Executive, said:       "Continual improvement in testing science is fundamental to the global       anti-doping movement, ensuring that sophisticated dopers are caught and       those at a tipping point are deterred.
I am delighted that this UK       developed test ... was used at the 2012 Paralympic Games to such good       effect."
[5.3].
As Parkinson alludes to in his statement, another       beneficiary of the research is UK science as a whole.
The test, created       and refined in the UK, is set to be used around the world.
The successful implementation of the GH-2004 test followed years of close       collaboration between Holt's team and international authorities during the       impact period.
WADA, USADA and UKAD held two-day annual meetings with the       academics to review the science.
From 2008, Holt established a close       working relationship with UK Sport and UKAD through meetings five times a       year.
A statement from UK Sport said: "Any gap in our testing armoury       obviously concerns us as it damages our ability to tackle doping in sport.
As such, to be actively involved in a research project in partnership with       the GH-2004 team at Southampton University and the WADA-accredited       laboratory at King's College ... is of real importance and invaluable in       continuing the drive to combat doping in sport."
[5.7].
Holt has been proactive in disseminating the results.
From 2003 and       continuing throughout the REF period, he has spoken to a vast range of       media outlets about the GH test, including BBC Radio, newspapers and       television (e.g.
the Richard &amp; Judy Show on Channel 4).
He has given       lectures at events that have included the 2008 Major League Baseball GH       Summit, Los Angeles (reported by the Los Angeles Times [5.8]       and USA Today [5.9] quoting Holt) and the joint USADA and UK       Sport anti-doping science symposium, London (2011).
At present WADA undertakes ~5000 tests for GH per annum but this is       likely to increase with the introduction of a more effective test.
WADA's       goal is to roll out the test internationally and laboratories worldwide       will apply for approval to administer the test.
The test is not confined       to athletics.
After discussions with Holt, the U.S. National Football       League [5.10] and Major Baseball League made internal       recommendations to commission anti-doping labs in the U.S. to carry out       the test.
The test has already been used outside the Olympics in other UK       sports although the details remain confidential.
WADA intends to include       the test in athletes' biological passports, which will ensure GH detection       is even more effective.
