     HCS and SWS research findings have directly resulted in a wide range of       international, national and local policy changes towards the prevention       and control of non-communicable diseases, as well as training and public       education programmes, leading to health benefits for millions of people.
Public policy: Following review by the National Institute for       Health and Care Excellence (NICE), SWS research findings fed directly into       the formation of new public health guidance on nutrition for pregnant and       breastfeeding mothers and children in low-income households (published in       2008, [5.1]) and on weight management before, after and during       pregnancy (published 2010, [5.2]).
NICE guidelines are used in the       education and training of health professionals and by pregnant and       breastfeeding mothers to make informed decisions.
Government figures show       that there were over 3.9 million children living in low-income households       in 2008/2009; 25-30% of those children were in the first few years of       childhood.
The Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition's (SACN's) policy on early       influences on chronic diseases in later life, published in 2011, similarly       draws heavily on Southampton research.
The SACN final report specifically       cites SWS data and findings on the association between longer duration of       breastfeeding and lower fat mass at 4 years, on low maternal vitamin D       status and fetal bone development, and on low income diet and nutrition.
The impact of this research becomes clear in the report's 'Public health       recommendations' which include life-long nutritional interventions linked       to reproductive health and chronic disease prevention, and SACN's specific       recommendation of mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid in the       UK as a measure to prevent pregnancies affected by neural tube defects.
This measure was being considered by health ministers in July 2013 [5.3].
In 2008, Southampton research on the developmental origins of health and       disease informed the World Health Organisation Action Plan for the       prevention of non-communicable diseases [5.4].
In 2009, Hanson met Andrew Lansley, Secretary of State for Health, to       discuss implementation of this plan.
Subsequent to that meeting, Lansley       attended a UN General Assembly Summit on NCDs to discuss their rising       incidence, social and economic impact and risk factors (10-12 November       2009).
In the public press conference following the summit, Lansley       pointed to the clear links between NCDs and maternal/child health.
Poor       nutrition during pregnancy, he told representatives of the international       press, led to higher rates of diabetes and high blood pressure later in       life [5.5].
Between 2007-2010, The Food Standards Agency funded Inskip (&#163;434,000) to       undertake SWS data collection and write a comprehensive report on       nutritional influences on body composition, cognitive function development       and respiratory health [5.6].
Industrial impact: Through the EpiGen Consortium (an international       alliance of six private and public sector epigenetics researchers &#8212; one of       which is LEU &#8212; established in 2006), SWS research linking perinatal       biological samples to epigenetic measurements has been further       disseminated.
So far this has led to more than &#163;10 million in research       collaborations, with Southampton research in metabolic programming       directly leading to three patents for the formulation of nutritional       products for mothers and infants filed in 2007, 2008 and 2009.
Professional practice: Launched in 2010, the Southampton       Initiative for Health (SIH) is a training intervention with Sure Start       Children's Centre (SSCC) staff designed to improve the diets and physical       activity levels of women of childbearing age.
Developed with the primary       care trust and based on SWS findings, researchers have trained over 150       SSCC staff in holding 'healthy conversations' with their clients.
More       than 500 women have enrolled in the study so far with potential benefits       for their diet and activity levels [5.7].
Sure Start trainees       reported feeling empowered by the training; one said "Very good course...       it has given me a lot to think about when planning my own training and       support in health behaviour change."
Public benefit: In 2008, SWS researchers launched LifeLab &#8212;       an innovative educational intervention designed to enable 11-16 year-olds       to learn how diet and lifestyle lay the foundations for a healthier life,       and how their own health is linked to the health of their future children.
So far, more than 1,500 students in Southampton have taken part in the       programme.
Feedback indicates that six months after visiting, students had       a greater understanding of the impact of health behaviours in early life       on future health compared with peers.
LifeLab students were       significantly more likely to consider pursuing science and healthcare       subjects after their GCSEs.
One student said "...there's only so much you       can learn in school... if you actually go there and do it for yourself       it's much better."
OFSTED said LifeLab "is making an important       contribution to students' understanding of the need to adopt healthy       lifestyles."
LifeLab is now a key part of Southampton City's       public health strategy [5.8].
Public awareness and understanding of the research findings were raised       through a BBC2 Horizon special "The Nine Months That Made You" [5.9]       based on Barker's research, and BBC News coverage (13/2/2009).
