     Research conducted at Southampton into the anti-inflammatory effects of       omega-3 fatty acids has had wide-ranging benefits.
These relate to the       treatment, mortality rate and economic costs of cardiovascular disease; to       clinical practice in and guidelines on cardiovascular disease and       parenteral nutrition; to economic benefits through the patenting of the       plaque stabilisation by omega-3 fatty acids; and to public health.
The research resulted in the discovery that atherosclerotic plaque       stabilisation is likely to reduce cardiovascular mortality rates.
The       reduction in mortality would be a few percent in the general population       but, based upon the extent of plaque stabilisation observed, 10 to 20% of       those who had already suffered a major event like myocardial infarction or       stroke survived.
This should be considered in the context that, according       to the British Heart Foundation, one in three of all deaths in the UK in       2010 was the result of cardiovascular disease.
This equates to 180,000       deaths, including 80,000 from coronary heart disease and 49,000 from       strokes.
There are 120,000 myocardial infarctions and 150,000 strokes in       the UK each year.
With cardiovascular disease costing the UK healthcare       system around &#163;8.7bn in 2009 (72% from hospital costs) and the UK economy       around &#163;19bn, the economic savings of reducing cardiovascular mortality       and morbidity are considerable.
The 2003 Lancet paper has been cited over 300 times and was named by the       NIH Office of Dietary Supplements (USA) as one of the top 25 research       papers published in 2003.
The findings are discussed in the 2011 position       paper of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Working Group on       Atherosclerosis and Vascular Biology [5.1], directed at clinicians       and scientists; the ESC has responsibility for establishing practice       guidelines for cardiologists across Europe.
The application of Calder's research on omega-3 fatty acids to the       development of novel lipid emulsions for use in parenteral (intravenous)       nutrition has contributed to clinical acceptance of novel lipid emulsions       and influenced the 2009 European Society for Clinical Nutrition and       Metabolism (ESPEN) Guidelines on the use of parenteral lipids in intensive       care [5.2].
These guidelines, aimed at intensive care physicians       across Europe, refer to Calder's work on the anti-inflammatory actions of       omega-3 fatty acids and support their provision for improved patient       recovery.
Calder directly contributes to the translation of scientific findings for       clinical end-users by giving presentations in many educational and       continuing professional development events for health professionals across       Britain and Ireland.
These events are attended by 20-100 delegates &#8212; including GPs, cardiologists, cardiac rehab nurses, pharmacists, surgeons,       intensivists and dieticians &#8212; resulting in a cumulative audience of       several thousands of health professionals, helping to educate them and to       translate the research findings into clinical practice.
Calder has written       several educational/CPD articles for health professionals [5.3]       and in 2012 was interviewed in the Dutch medical magazine Nederlands       Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde [5.4].
The discovery of plaque stabilisation by omega-3 fatty acids was patented       and licensed to Pronova Biocare, and subsequently granted in a number of       European countries (in 2009 [5.5]) and in Australia, China       (in 2010) and Canada (in 2013) providing an intellectual and marketing       advantage to the holder and contributing to wealth creation in the private       sector.
This discovery and its patenting supported the Pronova product       Omacor, known in North America as Lovaza, globally the largest       prescription omega-3 pharmaceutical.
Calder's work influenced the funding       decisions of several organisations during the REF impact period.
Pronova       Biocare awarded Southampton &#163;300,000 for follow-up research and Calder       received substantial funding to continue his research programme on omega-3       fatty acids and inflammation including grants from Food Standards Agency       (&#163;450,000), European Commission (&#163;702,000 and &#163;405,000), and industry       (Unilever &#163;110,000; B Braun &#163;11,000; Vifor Pharma &#163;325,000).
Southampton's research in this area has impacted on public health by       creating considerable media coverage, contributing to public appreciation       and understanding of science and to UK and US dietary guidelines for the       general population.
Calder regularly gives interviews for television       (Channel Five news, Meridian news), radio (BBC Radio 4 Food Programme,       several regional BBC stations, Jack FM), newspapers (Diario Jaen, Daily       Mail, The Times, The Sunday Times, Los Angeles Times [5.6], Daily       Echo), magazines (Mens Health, Good Housekeeping, Bottom Line Health,       Consumer Reports on Health) and on many websites (e.g.
BBC, Irish       Independent) as well as in food industry magazines (e.g.
Nutraingredients       [5.7]).
Calder is regarded as an authoritative voice and key       opinion leader in the area of fats and health, often serving to bring       clarification amid public confusion in the light of conflicting scientific       and media reports.
Most recently, Calder has given interviews and been       quoted in relation to recent research about saturated and omega-6 fats       (e.g.
Boston Globe, BBC regional radio stations, Jack FM) and to the       changing regulatory view on omega-3 fats and cardiovascular disease (New       York Times, 2013 [5.8]).
Calder presented his research findings at four Food Standards Agency       Chief Investigator Review Workshops, at which the scientific basis that       underpins the current UK dietary recommendations about fat and fatty acid       intake were established in 2010 [5.9].
Calder's research was also       reviewed, along with accrued evidence about fish and omega-3 fatty acids       and (principally cardiovascular) human health, when the Scientific       Advisory Committee on Nutrition and the Committee on Toxicology considered       the UK guidelines for intake of fish and n-3 fatty acids.
Published in       2004, the report established a new UK recommendation for omega-3 fatty       acid intake [5.10], which remains in place.
This recommendation       contributes significantly to UK public health policy.
