     All the studies that contributed to the development of MUST were       undertaken by the University of       Southampton/NHS Trust partnership and, since 2007, at the Southampton NIHR       Biomedical       Research Centre for Nutrition, Lifestyle and Healthy Ageing.
Through the advocacy of Elia and Jackson, the research has informed a       range of national       government and non-government initiatives, several of which they have       chaired.
These include the       British Association for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (BAPEN) and the       Malnutrition Action Group       (MAG).
As a result, the roll-out of the MUST framework into clinical       practice began in 2003 [5.1],       but most of the uptake occurred after 2008.
Since then, NICE [5.2]       and several NHS-related       bodies, including the National Patient Safety Agency [5.3], and       Quality, Innovation, Productivity       and Prevention (QIPP, a large-scale transformational programme for the       NHS), NHS Quality       Improvement Scotland [5.4], and Department of Health Northern       Ireland [5.5] have supported the       MUST framework as an appropriate basis for managing malnutrition.
The NICE `Quality Standard on Nutrition Support in Adults' (QS24, 2012) [5.2]       singles out MUST       as a screening tool for routine use.
It benefits both patients and staff       through consistent       malnutrition diagnostic criteria, facilitating care between hospital and       community settings [5.2, 5.6],       enabling meaningful audits, inspections by the Care Quality Commission and       assessments of the       clinical and economic burden of malnutrition.
Elia et al raised policymakers' awareness of the importance of       malnutrition through the 2009       launch of two House of Commons reports based on the MUST framework: Combating         Malnutrition       [5.7] and Calculating the Cost of Disease-related Malnutrition         in the UK, introduced by the       Conservative Shadow Health Secretary, Stephen O'Brien, which called for       the use of MUST across       the NHS.
Screening for Malnutrition in Sheltered Housing and         Good Practice Guide were       introduced by Paul Burstow, later Minister of State for Care Services.
In       February 2010, national       media widely reported the Department of Health response to the final       report of the Nutrition Action       Plan Governance Board [5.8] commending the development of MUST as       "valuable work", which       also served to raise public awareness of the availability of the tool.
Later in 2010, the National Clinical Content Repository (publishes       clinical data standards and NHS-licensed       third party-owned content) and Connecting for Health (develops NHS       national IT       infrastructure) approved Elia's request to add MUST classification codes       to an international coding       system (SNOMED) used in the UK to configure NHS computing systems.
This       new, consistent       electronic nomenclature reinforced the recognition of MUST as both a       national and international       screening tool.
By 2011, MUST was used in more than 80% of English and essentially all       Scottish hospitals and       care homes [5.6].
By November 2012, NICE documents showed that the       annual cost saving       associated with managing malnutrition, broadly based on the MUST       framework, amounted to       &#163;71,800 per 100,000 population [5.2b], the third highest       cost-saving figure associated with the       implementation of all NICE guidelines.
As MUST became an integral part of the UK's health policy program, Elia       signed an agreement       (2008) with the Secretary of State for Health to incorporate MUST into the       web-based NHS       National Programme for IT, making it available to all NHS staff, hospitals       and the armed forces       outside the UK.
Also in 2008, MUST was adopted as a central component of       the core nutrition       education pathway by NHS Education and NHS Quality Improvement Scotland [5.4].
Since then,       Elia and his teams have received over 1,000 requests from organisations       and individuals seeking       advice and permission to use MUST appropriately, including NHS Trusts and       commercial       enterprises in the UK and abroad.
Both Finland and the Netherlands have       incorporated MUST into       their national health policies and there are local policies in various       countries including Portugal,       Czech Republic, Spain, and Australia (hospitals in Adelaide and South       Australia).
The following have also helped embed the MUST framework into routine       practice [5.9]:     1) MUST aids: Elia et al (2011-13) developed MUST charts, a MUST       caclulator and MUST app       for iphones (Android app is scheduled for launch late 2013) for use across       all care settings by       front-line staff.
International demand sustained translation of these aids       into Spanish, French,       Portuguese, Italian and German.
Expressions of interest were also received       from other       countries, including China and Finland.
These aids, available from the       BAPEN website, have       been used by commercial enterprises and most Trusts in the UK.
2) Education and training: Instruction manuals for the use of MUST       were rolled out in 2011-13,       with the DH's QIPP programme supporting, promoting and distributing MUST       e-learning       modules using NHS IT compliant systems and portals, with facilities for       customisation and       certification, especially in Trusts where MUST training has become       mandatory.
MUST became       part of standard medical and nutrition texts (eg 7th and 8th       editions of Kumar and Clark's Clinical         Medicine 2009, 2012).
3) Media: e.g.
publication in 2009 of the Combating         Malnutrition report was widely covered in       national media, quoting Elia in BBC News Online, The Guardian and several       other national       newspapers.
MUST was recognised in the 2008 NHS Business Awards for `Innovation' [5.10].
In the same year,       Elia, as Chair of BAPEN, also received the Medical Nutrition International       Industry Award for the       organisation's work in combating malnutrition.
The MUST app for iphones       was selected by the DH       for presentation at a showcase event of the `Map and App project' in 2011,       attended by the       Minister of State for Health.
NICE has already indicated its       `Commissioning Outcomes' and `Quality       and Outcomes' Frameworks will consider NICE quality standards/indicators,       including nutritional       screening in 2013/14.
