     Alzheimer's disease is a `ticking time bomb', according to a 2012 report       by the World Health Organisation.
Globally, an estimated 36 million people       have the disease, with associated costs thought to reach $600 billion a       year.
The number of people affected is expected to more than triple by       2050.
There are currently no disease-modifying or preventative treatments       for Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia that affects       one fifth of all people over the age of 80.
The University of       Southampton's research into the disease has fundamentally changed the way       the disease is perceived, the theories behind what causes it and,       consequently, the development of new vaccination therapies by       pharmaceutical companies.
The Southampton team's original finding, published in Nature Medicine,       that it is possible to stimulate the immune system to `attack', and       clear, amyloid plaques encouraged several pharmaceutical companies to       continue with the programmes they had been about to abandon.
The Nature         Medicine paper was cited as evidence for proof of concept by Elan       Pharmaceuticals that immunisation strategies are a valid treatment       approach for Alzheimer's in their early US patents in 2004 and 2005.
Ensuing financial investment in this treatment concept by the       pharmaceutical industry was vast.
In 2009, Johnson and Johnson acquired       Elan Pharmaceuticals' amyloid immunisation programme for $885m and further       financial investment by other pharmaceutical companies followed.
The Nature         Medicine paper and later research findings were cited in more than       40 successful US patent applications [5.1] by other pharmaceutical       companies, the majority published after 2008.
The estimated overall       investment in these compounds is around $3bn [5.2, 5.3].
But it was the academics' discovery that, contrary to popular theories of       the time, even complete plaque removal did not stop, or even slow       cognitive impairment associated with established Alzheimer's disease, that       had the greatest impact on research into Alzheimer's [5.4, 5.5, 5.6].
As a result of these findings, pharmaceutical companies, including Roche       and Eli Lilly, switched their focus from trying to find a treatment for       the disease once it has taken hold, to finding a preventative treatment.
A       taskforce convened to advise the Federal Drug Administration on the design       of early (pre-dementia) Alzheimer's disease studies, cites the Southampton       research as evidence as to why it is necessary to start therapies before       the onset of clinical dementia in order for it to have any positive effect       [5.7].
Of particular additional importance was Southampton's finding that       triggering an immune response that causes the removal of amyloid protein       plaques can, in some cases, result in micro bleeds in the brain.
This has       led directly to changes in ongoing immunotherapy trials to ensure such       side effects are mitigated [5.7].
Building on these insights into       the potential benefits, and risks, of amyloid-lowering therapies is now       seen by stakeholders in the Alzheimer's drug development arena, including       individuals and families affected by the disease, academic thought       leaders, the pharmaceutical industry and the Alzheimer's Association, as       amongst the most pressing questions in Alzheimer's research [5.8].
Members of the Southampton team have taken on advisory/consultancy roles       for the Alzheimer immunisation programmes of the major pharmaceutical       companies; Hoffmann-La Roche, Novartis, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Elan and       Janssen.
This has led to the inclusion by those companies of methods to       monitor and interpret the side effects noted in the trials.
This includes       in vivo amyloid imaging (PET scans with amyloid ligands) and specific MRI       sequences for micro haemorrhages and vasogenic oedema.
In addition, recommendations from the US Alzheimer's Association to the       National Institutes of Health in 2011 cited eight of Southampton's       publications on this topic [5.9].
This led directly to a policy       change by the US Food and Drug Administration in 2012 to implement       advisory measures for the safe monitoring of patients receiving       immunotherapy treatments for Alzheimer's [5.8].
These       recommendations include: reducing the dose of amyloid-modifying drugs in       clinical participants who develop amyloid-related imaging abnormalities       (ARIA); increasing the monitoring of study participants in Phase I and       early Phase II studies to gain further knowledge about the mechanisms       underlying micro haemorrhages; and updating reporting standards for MRIs       used to evaluate and monitor for ARIA.
Southampton's research programme has contributed to increasing UK       government awareness about the importance of funding further research into       Alzheimer's.
The Alzheimer's Research Trust organised for the Southampton       team to present their findings in the House of Lords, and at a       face-to-face meeting with the then Prime Minister Gordon Brown at 10       Downing Street in 2008.
Both events were followed a year later by a       ministerial summit on dementia on November 15, 2009 at which Prof Holmes       chaired round table discussions [5.10].
This meeting led to the       formation of the ministerial advisory group on dementia research.
Subsequently, in March 2012, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a       doubling of funding for Alzheimer's disease to &#163;66 million by 2015 and       early detection screening [5.11].
