     Monoclonal antibodies represent a multi-billion dollar industry with at       least five attaining blockbuster drug status (&gt; one billion       dollars/year).
Researchers at Southampton have played a leading role in       bringing two types of anti-CD20 drugs from lab to market/clinic to treat       resistant leukaemia and inspiring the development of a new class of       immunostimulatory anti-cancer antibodies to protect against cancerous       diseases.
Ofatumumab, marketed under the name Arzerra, was patented by Glennie and       colleagues and approved by the FDA in 2009 after Southampton researchers       proved it was able to kill target cells resistant to similar drugs [5.1],       and granted marketing authorisation by the European Medicines Agency in       2011.
Only eight years elapsed between its discovery and FDA approval,       reflecting its impact on cancer treatment.
It was licensed from Genmab to       GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), after Prof Glennie returned to Southampton, in a       package reported to total more than $2 billion, the largest known       settlement for a mAb at the time.
Ofatumumab's initial approval was for       the most prevalent form of leukaemia, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, where       it demonstrated a 42% response rate in patients who had failed to respond       to the `best in class' treatments.
Ofatumumab has been the subject of more       than 90 clinical trials.
It has been launched in 26 countries [5.2]       and has annual sales of over $70 million.
It also won the Galien Prize in       the Netherlands for the "Year's Best Medicine" in 2011 [5.3].
Globally, leukaemia accounts for some 300,000 new cases each year with       222,000 deaths giving Arzerra a wide reach even in its first approved       indication.
However, it is currently in 19 further clinical trials for       other B-cell disorders including follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell       lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis (&gt;400 million patients worldwide), and       multiple sclerosis (2.1 million patients worldwide).
The full clinical and       economic impact of ofatumumab is thus increasing rapidly and given that       rituximab, its less potent prototype, has annual revenue in excess of $6       billion and treats most B-cell disorders, the impact is far-reaching.
The same programme of Southampton research has also been instrumental in       the selection of a second anti-CD20 mAb, named GA101 or obinutuzumab       (named in 2009), by Roche.
This was the first type II anti-CD20 mAb to be       humanised for clinical work.
Capable of killing a significantly higher       number of cancerous cells than its type I counterpart, it is currently in       multicentre phase III trials, including a head-to-head trial against       rituximab in lymphoma and leukaemia.
GA101 combined with chlorambucil       demonstrated a significant 86% reduction in the risk of leukaemia       progression, relapse or death [5.4, 5.5].
It is expected that       Roche/Genentech will replace rituximab with obinutuzumab once FDA approval       has been obtained.
The head of Roche Glycart said: "The characterisation of type I and II         CD20 mAb by the Glennie lab in Southampton and their clear demonstration         of increased potency by type II reagents was a key factor in our         decision to select GA101 for clinical development."
[5.6].
Under its antibody discovery programme Southampton [grant A] has       developed one of the first anti-human CD40 mAbs, ChiLob 7-4, to be tested       clinically; work presented at the 2010 annual conference of the American       Society of Clinical Oncology, held in Chicago [5.7].
This came       despite a series of regulatory delays following a failed clinical trial of       the mAb at London's Northwick Hospital.
Southampton is measuring its       activity in a phase I clinical trial, and a licensing agreement is       currently under confidential negotiation with a German Biotech company.
This development will be part of a recent E6 million EU Framework 7 [grant       G], announced in 2013, to develop ChiLob 7-4 in both pancreatic and head       and neck cancer across Europe.
In addition to ChiLob 7-4, three other CD40 reagents have undergone       clinical trials; the most advanced is Pfizer's product CP-870,893 which       shows promise in the treatment of pancreatic cancer (NCT00711191 commenced       2008), a highly aggressive disease with poor prognosis which results in       around 300,000 deaths per year worldwide [5.8].
Anti-CD40 mAbs are       the forerunners of a new range of immunostimulatory mAb and many of these       have entered the clinic in the last decade.
The most successful to date,       ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) (Bristol-Myers Squibb) was approved (2011) for       the skin cancer metastatic melanoma (&gt;200,000 new cases each year       worldwide), the first time any drug has improved survival in this       devastating disease.
The pivotal trial for ipilimumab (2008-2010) was       conducted in multiple centres, including Southampton (Professor Christian       Ottensmeier), with over 600 patients, and opens the way for       immunostimulatory mAbs in cancer and other diseases where immune       modulation is therapeutic.
Finally, Southampton's antibody research has       led to the discovery and patenting (issued July 2013) of a novel cancer       target, CD27, for immunostimulatory mAbs that can promote anti-cancer       immunity.
This intellectual property is licensed exclusively to Celldex       Therapeutics, USA, who are undertaking a phase I trial with a fully human       mAb, CDX-1127 [5.9, 5.10].
Collectively, Southampton's mAb research has underpinned the development       of clinical mAb, including delivery of two clinical drugs (Arzerra and       GA101), one approved and one soon to be approved, which together are       protecting thousands of patients from B-cell disorders ranging from       leukaemia to autoimmunity and earning millions of dollars worldwide, and       which stand to replace rituximab the prototype anti-B-cell mAb.
It is also       the basis of a range of immune stimulating drugs (anti-CD27, &#8212; CD40 and       clinical testing of ipilimumab), which have revitalised the immunotherapy       field and demonstrated the first increase in survival of metastatic       melanoma ever recorded.
