     A sustained programme of research, carried out by the University of       Southampton at relatively low       cost, accumulated sufficient evidence for the Department of Health, on the       advice of the Joint       Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI), to recommend in 2011       that welders and, from       2012, other workers with exposure to metal fume, be offered immunisation       against pneumococcal       infection [5.1].
An excerpt from the October 2012 revision of the Green Book, DH's       official guidance on       immunisation for health professionals, states: "There is an association       between exposure to metal       fume and pneumonia and infectious pneumonia, particularly lobar pneumonia       (Palmer et al., 2003;       Palmer et al., 2009; Industrial Injuries Advisory Council, 2010;       Toren et al., 2011) and between       welding and invasive pneumococcal disease (Wong et al., 2010)...       [Pneumococcal polysaccharide       vaccine] should be considered for those at risk of frequent or continuous       occupational exposure to       metal fume (e.g.
welders) taking into account the exposure control       measures in place" [3.4, 3.5,         5.1b, 5.1c].
The chair of the JCVI, Professor Andy Hall, corresponded and spoke with       the Southampton MRC       team in deciding to proceed with the Green Book recommendation and in       framing its terms.
The       main evidence cited in favour of vaccination in the Green Book comprised       reports from       Southampton.
Evidence generated by the MRC team has also been reviewed by       the Industrial       Injuries Advisory Council (the statutory body advising government on       compensation for       occupationally-related disease), and the evidence for a hazard was       accepted.
While the DH recommendation has been made, as yet it is too early to       judge the overall uptake of       the vaccine and its preventive impact.
However, there are almost 80,000       full-time welders in the       UK who could benefit, and many workers in other jobs entailing exposure to       metal fume.
During 1991-2000 &#8212; the latest period for which there is information &#8212;       there were an estimated 45       excess deaths nationally from infectious pneumonia (principally       pneumococcal) in welders and       other occupations exposed to metal fume [5.2].
In addition, there       will have been many more       excess cases of pneumonia that were non-fatal, but nevertheless caused       substantial illness.
The       introduction of immunisation therefore has the potential to prevent       significant numbers of deaths       and serious infections occurring at relatively young ages.
The Southampton       team has estimated       that 588 welders would need to be vaccinated every ten years to prevent       one case of invasive       pneumococcal disease [5.3].
This is not unreasonable when viewed       in comparison with other well-respected       public health policies.
Keith Palmer produced a review about the vaccination policy, to alert       occupational physicians in       the UK to the recommendations [5.3].
The review won the Esso Prize       for 2013.
It was distributed to       key stakeholder organisations and featured in the Institution of       Occupational Safety and Health       (IOSH) newsletter; the Association of Local Authority Medical Advisors       (ALAMA) website; and a       press release from the Society of Occupational Medicine (SOM) in July 2012       [5.4].
The story was taken up widely by the British trade press in 2012,       especially in the construction,       engineering, and safety industries.
Print and online titles referring to       the research included Welding         Design and Fabrication [5.5], Personnel Today [5.6],       Construction Enquirer [5.7] and Medical         News Today [5.8].
The research also reached a consumer       audience when it was referenced in       Men's Health magazine.
Articles typically picked up on a quote from       Dr Richard Heron, President       of the Society of Occupational Medicine, "A &#163;30 jab may save a life."
In       the wake of such extensive       coverage, the Southampton team received a flood of enquiries from       employers seeking more       information about the risks and their obligations.
The main body of evidence internationally on this occupational hazard       comes from the       Southampton team, and the UK is ahead of other parts of the world in       developing a vaccination       policy.
However, encouraged by the work undertaken at Southampton, Toren       et al (2011) have       since shown that Swedish welders have a five- to six-fold greater risk of       hospital admission with       lobar pneumonia, and Wong et al (2010) have reported a three-fold       increased risk of invasive       pneumococcal disease in Canadian welders.
Shortly after the team's initial       report, the Norwegian       Labor Inspectorate issued a health alert on the hazard to physicians in       Norway.
To increase       awareness of the research findings overseas, the team wrote a research       letter for publication in the       international journal, Occupational and Environmental Medicine [5.9].
A paper was also published       in the international respiratory medicine journal, Thorax (Palmer       et al [5.2]) and a letter to generalphysicians in the UK in the       RCP's journal Clinical Medicine [5.10].
If other countries follow the UK in adopting vaccination for workers       exposed to metal fume, many       more lives may be saved and substantially more serious morbidity       prevented.
Meanwhile, the MRC       team have been asked to contribute to the development of HSE guidance on       vaccination for metal       workers.
