     Southampton research has been central to the development and       international licensing of the anti- Ig-E monoclonal antibody (mAb)       omalizumab (Xolair), one of only two novel asthma therapies to emerge in       the last 30 years.
This body of work has transformed asthma control and       survival prospects for severe allergic asthmatics, was critical to major       inward investment in UK R&amp;D and has stimulated wider development of       anti-IgE therapeutics in a broad range of atopic indications.
Omalizumab provides an effective therapeutic option for those with       severe, persistent allergic asthma, including those for whom standard       therapy provides only limited control [5.1, 5.2].
This group are       at the highest risk of mortality amongst the three to four million       children and adults with allergic asthma in the UK and prior to licensing       of omalizumab, therapeutic options for control of their condition were       constrained: Conventional long-term, high dose regimens of inhaled       corticosteroid (ICS) plus long-acting &#946;2-agonist (LABA)       provided limited control, with impacts on bone mineralisation and growth,       particularly in children; and anti-leukotrienes demonstrated only       equivocal improvements in efficacy in a small subset of patients.
Omalizumab yields significantly reduced rescue medication and ICS usage,       fewer hospitalisation events and days in hospital, improved lung function       and increased quality of life measures [5.3].
Southampton has       played an instrumental role in the progression of omalizumab to the       clinic, through commercial research partnerships, leadership of key       clinical trials and its central role in elucidating the mechanisms and       implications of IgE involvement in asthma [5.4].
This work was synergistically linked to Holgate's consultancy role with       CIBA-Giegy, focused on development of an anti-IgE mAb asthma therapy for       asthma.
The Southampton-led safety study with CIBA-Giegy played a critical       role in triggering US company Genentech's decision to further pursue       development (latterly in partnership with Novartis) of its humanised       anti-IgE mab, omalizumab, which had drawn on Southampton's mechanistic       studies in earlier development [5.4] and led directly to its       registration in the USA in 2003 and in Europe in 2009 [5.5].
Omalizumab's high unit cost and variations in patient therapeutic       responses mean that effective targeting is required to ensure best care       for the patient and cost management for healthcare providers.
The       Holgate-led definition of a 16 week post-treatment assessment of response       status was the basis of a standardised and robust assessment framework       developed in 2007 [5.6, 5.7] and which is now included in current       product and healthcare guidance that enables clinicians to make informed       treatment decisions.
Omalizumab has now been included in the 2012 Global       Initiative for Asthma (GINA) [5.2] and British Thoracic Society       SIGN [5.1] Guidelines for the treatment of severe allergic asthma,       following a detailed cost-benefit analysis, have recently (March 2013)       been approved for use in the UK by NICE for adults and children who need       frequent treatment with oral corticosteroids [5.3].
The successful registration of omalizumab, combined with data from the       mechanistic studies of IgE roles in allergenic inflammation led by       Southampton, is having impacts beyond asthma therapy.
Its clinical safety       and the commonality of IgE as a therapeutic target has stimulated research       into omalizumab use in a wide range of atopic and inflammatory       indications, including urticaria, angioedemia, atopic dermatitis, allergic       rhinitis, nasal polyposis and severe ocular allergies [5.8].
There       are also early indications of positive influences on common allergic       asthma co-morbidities such as allergic rhinitis, and a role for omalizumab       in prophylactic control of anaphylaxis in specific allergen immunotherapy.
Southampton's IgE research and the concentration of expertise established       through it, were critical factors in Novartis' decision to locate their       respiratory biomedical research unit in the UK at Horsham.
As only one of       Novartis' eleven global research units based in the UK, it represents       significant inward investment and commitment to the UK as a focus for       respiratory therapy development [5.9].
Collaboration with Novartis       continues, with Holgate providing consultancy input on the successor to       omalizumab (QGE031) [5.10], which has demonstrated 15-fold higher       efficacy in its first trials, indicating significant further potential       cost and treatment benefits of anti-IgE mAb for severe allergic asthma and       allied disorders.
