     The results of the Wessex Trial were used extensively in the key 1997       document commissioned by the Department of Health to review the relevant       data and make recommendations on a screening programme.
This review, which       led directly to the implementation of UNS now in place throughout the UK,       singled out the Wessex trial for its size, quality, and design; the review       also specifically recommends that providers build on the experience of       this trial.
In the history of the NHS Neonatal Hearing Screening Project,       written by the Medical Research Council and posted on the current       "Achievements &amp; Impact" page of its website, it is one of only two       clinical trials cited [5.1].
The growth in the use of evidence-based medicine has led to systematic       reviews of trials becoming increasing influential in formulating health       policy and the Wessex trial is one of only two trials worldwide rated as       "good" following a major systematic review of the evidence in 2001.
The       follow- up study of the effect of UNS on language is also one of only two       trials rated as "good" in the 2008 update of that systematic review [5.2]       and, of these two, only the Wessex Trial evaluated the benefit of       universal, as opposed to targeted, newborn screening.
Following the Hearing Outcomes Project that documented outcomes following       the Wessex Trial, Kennedy gave evidence to the US Preventative Services       Task Force (USPSTF) in October 2006 both on data already published and       also on data, subsequently published in 2009, documenting benefits to       reading ability in the same sample [3.6].
This played a       significant role in the USPSTF systematic review [5.2] that       focused heavily on the benefits to language reported by Kennedy et al in       The New England Journal of Medicine [3.4] and in the change in the       linked USPSTF recommendation on UNS from `Insufficient Evidence' in 2001       to `Recommend' in 2008 [5.3].
The fact that the report by       Schroeder et al [3.6] of a reduction in the cost of educational       special support associated with early intervention and other economic       impact on families and society increased the influence of Southampton's       work on health policy, both in the UK and overseas, is also clear from       subsequent reviews published in 2012 [5.4, 5.5].
The impact of UNS for PCHI dominates all newborn screening for any       disorder: the number of cases of PCHI detected by UNS in the USA in 2009       was estimated to be 5,073 accounting for 43.3% of all detected cases of       the 29 conditions for which newborn screening is recommended [5.6].
The impact on patients in the UK began in 2001 as the Neonatal Hearing       Screening Programme (NHSP) was rolled out, and continues to the present       day.
PCHI affects over one in 1400 babies born in England each year.
In a       typical week in 2012, 13,290 babies were screened in England, with 336 of       these being referred for further audiological testing, and 27 identified       as having PCHI [5.7].
Thus from 2008 to 2013, it is estimated that       over five million babies in England will have been screened [5.8],       and over 8,000 identified with PCHI.
The consequences of early treatment       of PCHI on the development of neural pathways and language, family       functioning, literacy, academic achievement, social-emotional well-being       and employment [5.4] impact not only on the child and their       family, but also financially on the wider society and the UK economy.
In the annual report on the NHS NHSP for 2008-09, Susan Daniels, Chief       Executive of the National Deaf Children's Society [5.9] said this       about the universal screening program: "Detecting deafness as soon in life       as possible gives children the best chance of fulfb01lling their       potential.
It enables families to access early intervention and support       services earlier, offers them greater choices and has a proven impact on       the development of language and communication skills, as well as       contributing to the closure of the attainment gap between deaf children       and their peers."
Then Secretary of State for Health, Andrew Lansley, backed the program by       saying in 2012: "The NHS Newborn Hearing Screening Programme ... allows       babies with hearing problems to receive the support they need earlier to       give them the best possible start in life."
[5.10]     The introduction of the NHS NHSP has led to a dramatic reduction in the       median age of identification of PCHI.
In a respected 2005 review [5.4],       the median age at identification was shown to fall from 60 to 10 weeks on       introduction of the NHSP.
The reduction for the upper quartile age was       even more dramatic: from 210 to 25 weeks.
These represent substantial       improvements in the prospects for these babies.
These changes have led to       similarly dramatic reductions in the age of clinical interventions such as       the fitting of hearing aids or cochlear implantation.
Similar benefits are also occurring in wider Europe, North America and       other continents with associated improvements in quality of life and       financial savings for society [5.3, 5.5, 5.11].
For example, by       2010 UNHS had been implemented in 20 of the 32 provinces in China, where       115,000 children under the age of seven suffer from severe-to-profound       deafness and where 30,000 babies are born each year with a hearing       impairment.
In 2009, the Chinese government set up a project to offer       cochlear implants to 1,500 children aged 1-5 years over the next three       years.
By 2011, the government had agreed to fund implants for an       additional 17,000 children over four years [5.11].
In summary, the widespread introduction of UNS programmes, based on       pivotal research led by Kennedy in Southampton has had an impact on       improving the quality of life of many thousands of babies and their       families in the UK and Worldwide.
