     UK antibiotic prescribing rose progressively until 1997 then fell       markedly until 2000 since when it has risen slowly.
There is a link       between the use of delayed prescriptions and the fall in prescriptions       that can be traced to the first Southampton study (1997) of delayed       prescribing for acute infections.
Sharland et al reported (in 2005) an 18%       reduction in national antibiotic prescribing for children in the five       years after 1997 due to a progressive divergence between antibiotics       prescribed and antibiotics used.
The authors concluded that GPs were       adopting delayed prescribing, "introduced after widespread dissemination       of trial results supporting this practice".
This impact continued through       the REF assessment period, demonstrated by an Ipsos MORI household       questionnaire survey in January 2011 which showed that 14.2% of adults in       England had been offered a delayed prescription for antibiotics [5.1],       and the recent national MRC-funded DESCARTE study - that showed delayed       prescribing was used in 18% of sore throat consultations, reducing       complications and reconsultations as effectively as immediate antibiotics.
The rise in antibiotic prescribing highlights the importance of       guidelines for primary care that, influenced by our research, discourage       the immediate prescription of antibiotics and advocate delayed       prescribing.
The long-term impact is in reducing the risk of antibiotic       resistance and saving NHS resources due to fewer antibiotic prescriptions       and repeat consultations.
The wealth of research, and recognition of antibiotic resistance as a       public health priority, spurred NICE to commission guidance for managing       RTIs focusing on novel prescribing strategies.
The recognition of       Southampton's central role in generating the evidence led to Little being       invited to chair the NICE guideline group [5.2].
Integral to the       formulation of this guidance - and referenced in it - were the Southampton       trials for sore throat, chest infection and otitis media.
The guidance       (CG69, 2008) endorsed delayed prescribing or no offer of antibiotics for       all acute RTIs by GPs, emergency departments and walk-in centres.
NICE       made conservative assumptions that the guidance would save &#163;3.7 million       annually [5.2].
Building on the NICE guidance, the Health Protection Agency published its       Management of Infection Guidance for Primary Care in the UK (2010) [5.3].
Referencing the Southampton trials, the guidance advises delayed       prescription for otitis media, sinusitis and bronchitis and also uses and       references Southampton's UTI diagnostic work.
Williamson and Everitt, on       the strength of their research, were asked to draft two Drug and       Therapeutics Bulletins (DTB) for sinusitis (2009) [5.4] and       conjunctivitis (2011) [5.5].
DTB is owned by BMJ Group, provides       independent advice for doctors, pharmacists and healthcare professionals,       and is described as essential reading for practising doctors by the House       of Commons Health Select Committee.
The research also informed Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network       (SIGN) guidance on sore throats (guideline 117, 2010) for the NHS in       Scotland [5.6], and has been central to guidance bulletins       published by the Medicine Resource Centre, which is attached to the       National Prescribing Centre, and read by GPs across the UK.
It is also       forming the basis of online training for existing and future GPs.
The       Royal College of General Practitioners appointed Moore as its Antibiotic       Resistance champion in 2011, and has developed online modules on treatment       of RTIs and UTIs (with input from Little and Moore), with one module based       on delayed prescribing [5.7].
The impact is felt internationally with guidelines that remain in force.
Southampton studies laid the foundations for a change in policy of the       American Academy of Paediatrics which updated its Guideline for the       Diagnosis and Management of Acute Otitis Media in 2013 [5.8].
It       generated controversy in the United States, representing the first time a       US health organisation had advised a wait-and-see approach in the form of       delayed prescription.
The European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases       issued guidance on the management of sore throats (2012), referencing the       Southampton trials and the University's research on sore throats [5.9].
The guidelines are read by GPs and doctors in emergency departments around       the EU.
The research on delayed prescribing has also been used as the       central recommendation in Israeli guidance on managing otitis media in       Israel, in force throughout the REF assessment period [5.10].
