     Southampton research into depression assessment has had significant       impacts on UK healthcare       guidelines, on GP practice, and &#8212; the trial evidence suggests &#8212; on patient       well-being.
The 2009 NICE depression guideline CG90 made direct reference to       Thompson, Kinmonth and       Kendrick's findings that attempts to improve the rate of recognition of       depression by GPs using       education had not improved recognition or outcomes [5.1].
It also       referred to Kendrick's (2005)       finding that, while the probability of prescribing antidepressants was       associated with GPs' ratings       of severity of depression, almost half of the people offered       antidepressants were not depressed       according to a validated measure [3.3].
Following Kendrick, the       guideline recommended (page       118): "When assessing a person with suspected depression, consider         using a validated measure         (for example, for symptoms, functions and/or disability) to inform and         evaluate treatment"       (Recommendation 5.2.13.4) [5.1].
The subsequent NICE quality       standard on the assessment of       depression issued in March 2011 recommended the use of a formal rating       scale for symptom       severity, and was endorsed by the British Association for       Psychopharmacology, the British       Psychological Society, the College of Mental Health Pharmacy, the College       of Occupational       Therapists, Depression Alliance, MIND, the Royal College of Nursing, and       the Royal College of       Psychiatrists [5.2].
A performance indicator for assessment of depression was introduced into       the QOF in April 2006       which had a sustained impact on care through to 2013.
This made direct       reference to the findings       of Kendrick and colleagues, stating (page 141): "GP global assessment         of severity does not accord         closely with more structured assessment of symptoms (Kendrick et al.
British Journal of General         Practice 2005; 55:280-286).
Assessment of severity is essential to         decide on appropriate         interventions and improve the quality of care" [5.3].
Thus,       QOF points (giving increased funding)       were awarded for the assessment of depression at diagnosis using validated       symptom       questionnaires.
Other researchers, including David Goldberg (at the       Institute of Psychiatry), Linda       Gask (University of Manchester) and Christopher Dowrick (University of       Liverpool) had shown that       global GP assessment was inaccurate, but it was Kendrick and colleagues       who demonstrated that       GP treatment with antidepressants was poorly targeted as a result.
Kendrick, Gask and Dowrick       were members of the mental health expert advisory group for the QOF.
The impact was immediate, widespread and sustained throughout the REF       assessment period.
NHS data from all UK general practices show that a total of 2,402,400 new       episodes of depression       were diagnosed and recorded by GPs between April 2008 and March 2013       inclusively, of which       2,213,485 (92.1%) were assessed using symptom questionnaires [5.4].
In 2009 another indicator was added to the QOF, promoting follow-up       assessment of depression       with symptom questionnaires 5 to 12 weeks after diagnosis.
The QOF       guidance reminded       practitioners of the importance of follow-up [5.5], citing the       Southampton analysis of the GP       research database [3.5] (on page 110): "Analysis of the GPRD         from 1993 to 2005 found that more         than half of patients treated with antidepressants only received         prescriptions for one or two months         of treatment" [5.5].
Between April 2009 and March 2013, UK GPs reported completing a total of       1,109,284 follow-up       assessments using validated severity measures (74.0% of 1,497,914 eligible       cases) [5.4].
The Southampton group's observational research indicates that       questionnaire assessment has       improved the targeting of treatment for patients compared to the situation       prior to its introduction in       the QOF [3.4, 3.6].
GPs' decisions to start or change treatment,       or refer patients, became much       more in line with NICE guidance than before the introduction of the       indicators.
There is also trial       evidence of benefit on patient outcomes of symptom questionnaire       assessment and monitoring.
A       2012 primary care trial in the USA found that questionnaire feedback led       to increased remission       and response rates among patients with depression [5.6].
This is       consistent with systematic review       evidence of clear benefit of monitoring in terms of patient outcomes from       research in psychological       and psychiatric practice [5.7].
Patient experience of the use of questionnaires has been positive, as was       shown by qualitative       interviews in 2007-8 led by Geraldine Leydon (Reader, at Southampton since       2005) in       collaboration with Dowrick (Liverpool) and Amanda Howe (East Anglia).
Patients said they saw the       questionnaires as helpful adjuncts to medical judgment, and their use as       an indication that their       depressive symptoms were taken seriously [5.8].
The requirement to       use symptom questionnaires       has been somewhat controversial, however.
Some GPs complained that       questionnaires cannot be       used with patients with language or literacy difficulties, are sometimes       inaccurate, and may be       intrusive in sensitive consultations.
Research led by Leydon showed some       GPs considered their       clinical judgment more important than questionnaires, and were concerned       that questionnaires       reduced the human element of the consultation and were a threat to their       professionalism [5.9].
Symptom questionnaires are now an optional component, rather than a       requirement, of the       structured assessment of depression promoted by indicators in the QOF       (2013) [5.5].
However, an       email survey in October 2013 of Hampshire general practices asking about       their use of depression       symptom questionnaires since these became optional showed that more than       half of practices       were still using questionnaires to aid the assessment of selected patients       [5.10].
