     The ISAAC project had a practical impact in the fields of heritage and       tourism, integrating dispersed knowledge on cultural tourism and local       heritage.
The project enhanced the relationship between heritage and       tourism in three civic tourist destinations through a novel Information       Communication Technology (ICT) environment that provided integrated and       user- friendly tourism e-services facilitating advanced access to European       cultural heritage assets     The main focus of the project was the development of an ICT architecture       capable of offering tourists and other users customised e-services for       retrieving and accessing complex multimedia information, based on cutting       edge service orientated data mining and multi-agent technology.
The       platform was developed by the team and implemented in three European       cities, Genoa, Amsterdam and Leipzig.
The ISAAC architecture was organised       in four different layers, a repositories layer, a communication and       harmonization layer, an applicative services layer dedicated to specific       applications e-services and a multi-modal human interface layer.
The ISAAC architecture was designed to incorporate all stages of the       cultural experience, from the pre-visit to the post-visit.
A key       innovation was the transition from single, isolated technologies to an       integrated platform with compelling e-services which were selected after       an evaluation phase.
They include an interactive map with a virtual tour,       event calendar, itinerary planning, profiling, tourism satisfaction       software and mobile clients (ISAAC 2009a, p14).
The feedback on the       prototype was positive overall.
The evaluation report highlighted the       "usefulness of the prototype for city partners" and the fact that "all       cities aim to use the platform at the end of the project" (Mitsche, Vogt       &amp; Cooper, 2009, p 43).
Research developed at the University of Sunderland fed directly into the       content and structure of the ISAAC digital platform.
As part of the work       packaged 1 the Sunderland team led a user survey of current digital and       non/digital cultural tourism media, which fed directly into the platform       (Mitsche et al 2007).
The study recommended that the digital platform       should appeal to different market sectors (tourists and locals) related to       their different knowledge levels and needs using appropriate       interpretative media.
This was achieved through focusing on interaction,       senses and good content provision and interpretation.
The latter focuses       on the technology, interpretation and eGovernance from the point of view       of the various stakeholders &#8212; tourists/residents/other stakeholders &#8212; and       the full life-cycle tourist experience &#8212; pre/during/post &#8212; visit &#8212; while       underlining unique experiential and symbolic selling points.
The University of Sunderland also participated in the development of       interpretative strategies for the partner cities of Amsterdam, Genoa and       Leipzig (Mitsche et al.
2008).
As part of Work Package 4 a number of       workshops were organised enabling cooperation and communication between       destination managers, stakeholders and communities.
An interpretative       strategy was produced that could be taken up by the partner cities and by       any other cities independent from, but aligned with their current       marketing and positioning strategy development level.
As a result of this work a number of non-technological innovations were       introduced mostly related with interpretation including: the integration       of cultural heritage, tourism and IT in the interpretation process; the       use of stories in positioning and destination management; the integration       of a variety of tangibles and intangibles in flexible and interpretative       systems; the tour based bundling approach to enlarging tourist footfall;       the production of a novel city platform for aggregated user content and       the development of a new methodological approach to active participation       based on blended focus groups and user preference evaluation approaches       (ISAACa, pp 68-77).
The three partner cities started from different stages in the process of       developing interpretative strategies, and each independently decided which       novel stories to tell.
Amsterdam focused on the concept of hidden       treasures (ISAACb), Leipzig on the district of Plagwitz and the       diverse cultural scene set within the Gr&#252;nderzeit architecture       (ISAACd), and Genoa on the Palazzi Rolli (ISAACc).
The specific       contents of these themes have been integrated and translated into the       terms of the ISAAC test cases, ensuring their sustainability beyond the       life of the project.
The ISAAC project resulted in a new set of e-services for Genoa tourists       and residents with "material and immaterial `stories' running along       cultural and touristic itineraries throughout the city" (ISAAC, 2009a, p       85).
The ISAAC project also caused "significant changes in the city's in-       house reorganisation around digital modernisation, particularly in how it       exploits promotes and manages its cultural heritage" (ISAAC, 2009,a p 85).
The participation in the ISAAC project also led to a new platform for       Leipzig tourists and residents where "users gets an overview of the topic       Grunderzeit and the different Grunderzeit districts" (ISAAC, 2009a, p97).
The municipality of Leipzig believes that the platform will increase the       attractiveness of its cultural heritage.
Finally Amsterdam gained "a new       e-service with a virtual tour through the architectural history of       Amsterdam" as well as research on "cultural heritage marketing", user       needs and on "tangible and non tangible aspects of cultural heritage".
(ISAAC, 2009a, p91).
