     AICG research has resulted in a range of algorithms and technological       strategies that allow individual energy consumers and suppliers to       coordinate their actions within electricity networks and electricity       markets to make better use of limited or constrained resources.
This has       led to economic savings in energy expenditure and has contributed to the       reduction of carbon emissions through work on "smart meters", which the       Government aims to have in 26 million homes by 2020.
An early key output of this work was GridCarbon: an iPhone       application for monitoring the UK electricity grid's carbon intensity and       generation mix, launched in January 2010.
GridCarbon was the first       smartphone app aimed at electricity distribution professionals, to provide       real-time information on a national electricity grid.
The last update in       October 2013 currently has over 2,000 users [5.1].
In July 2013, GridCarbon       was cited during the House of Lords' Grand Committee on the Energy Bill,       in the context of the need for the Government to develop a gold-standard       methodology for providing real time grid information to users [5.2].
During 2012/13, live energy displays using data derived from GridCarbon       were used during a six-month trial at a Federal Mogul (automotive and       aerospace product supplier) factory in Chapel-en-le-Frith.
During the       trial, live energy usage data was combined with live production data to       generate per component energy feedback to factory workers, as part of a       company wide initiative to pinpoint where energy was being wasted.
The       trial reduced energy waste by up to 20%, and in June 2013 the approach was       rolled out across the whole factory, with a view to extending it to other       Federal Mogul sites.
[5.3, 5.8]     In December 2012, AICG launched MyJoulo, a free online energy       advice system.
Drawing on AICG research, MyJoulo uses intelligent       algorithms to analyse data collected from an AICG-designed USB       temperature logger, to build a thermal model of the home and to infer the       operational settings of the heating system.
This model is then used to       calculate the impact, in terms of percentage reduction in heating costs,       of various interventions such as adjusting timer settings.
In its first       four months of operation, MyJoulo provided advice to over 750       private households, identifying over &#163;50k in annual heating bill savings.
Feedback from public users includes: "Geekery at its best."
[5.4].
In September 2013, MyJoulo won first place in the British Gas       Connecting Homes competition, and was named as the UK's brightest home       tech startup, at an event which saw 25 companies from around the world       pitch innovative products and services in the home energy sector to       British Gas.
MyJoulo won &#163;30k in seed funding at the event, was       spun-out of University of Southampton in November 2013, and plans are       progressing for a trial with British Gas customers in January 2014 [5.5].
In June 2011, Rogers participated in an industry workshop organised by       the UK Energy Research Centre, to discuss how smart meter research can       reduce customers' energy demands [5.6].
Subsequently, in March       2013, AICG began work with the Centre for Sustainable Energy, a charity       that provides energy advice to individuals and organisations, to extend       intelligent energy applications to electricity monitoring, using a bespoke       electricity logger developed at AICG [5.9].
In March 2013, AICG       was also invited by the Department of Energy and Climate Change to       participate in the next stage of its 'Smart Heating Control Trial'       providing sets of three MyJoulo loggers to 21 households, and       providing customised energy and heating system use analysis to the       customer experience team, in the first stage of the trial [5.10].
Throughout the course of this research, AICG researchers have       collaborated with industrial partners, influencing their funding decisions       and shaping their business strategies in the intelligent energy sector.
Having secured a &#163;1.6 million grant from Secure Meters (market leader in       supply of intelligent electronic meters) in 2009, they worked with the       company's engineers to use Gaussian process prediction algorithms to       predict aggregate electricity demand in the UK and Indian electricity       grid.
Utilita, an energy retailer and Secure Meters subsidiary, applied       AICG clustering algorithms to the problem of clustering UK consumers       according to their electricity and gas consumption.
Secure Meters       engineers incorporated both novel algorithms into their standard toolset [5.11].
AICG has worked alongside developers from Horstmann Controls (the UK's       leading home heating controller manufacturer and a wholly-owned subsidiary       of Secure Meters) to demonstrate the application of intelligent learning       algorithms within Horstmann's heating controllers.
Horstmann says the       on-going trials will inform the design of its next-generation home heating       controllers [5.12].The Southampton researchers are also working       with BAE Systems within an EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account-funded       knowledge transfer secondment, to deploy advanced load recognition       algorithms within their DEMS (Deployed Energy Management System), and with       Microsoft Research to deploy algorithms to learn the thermal performance       of homes within their HomeLab smart home infrastructure.
AICG researchers have proactively disseminated their research findings to       increase awareness among the general public and industry of the value of       smart meters.
The research has appeared in BBC News, The Economist,         New Scientist, The Engineer (monthly e-magazine, 138,000       subscribers) and Science Daily (3 million monthly visitors       online).
Alex Rogers wrote about MyJoulo in the Huffington         Post's Tech section (28/3/13).
Academics delivered presentations at       Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems (AAMAS) conferences in 2010,       2011 and in 2012 (where Rogers gave the keynote address 'Delivering the       Smart Grid').
Each conference attracted several hundred leading       researchers and practitioners of agent technology [5.7].
