     New coordination and negotiation algorithms developed by the AICG,       directly led to the creation of two independent start-ups (Aerogility and       Aroxo), contributed to the economic growth of established businesses (e.g.
BAE) informed key changes in public policy and services (e.g.
Fawley) and       served as a key technology for British Antarctic Survey environmental       scientists.
Aerogility's main product is an agent-based business decision-support       system, targeted at global aerospace and defence organisations.
This was       developed by Jennings, who, in his capacity as Chief Scientist, worked       with Aerogility's product development team from the beginning of the       company (established under the name Lostwax in 1999) to refine       market-based negotiation algorithms developed through MBC and ALADDIN, so       they could efficiently and effectively optimise aircraft scheduling and       maintenance activities.
This core intellectual property has directly led       to Aerogility's growth.
The company expanded its business to the United       States in 2008 and currently employs 20 people.
Since the beginning of the       REF impact period, the system has been licenced by: i) Sikorsky Aerospace       Services for the S-92 fleet (2009); ii) Lockheed Martin for the F-22       Raptor and F-35 fleets (2012); and iii) Boeing for the TLCS UK Chinook       fleet (2012) with additional ongoing economic benefits from Aerogility's       selection by BAE Systems for its Tornado, Harrier, Typhoon, Nimrod and       Hawk fleets since 2006 [5.1].
Aerogility has twice received a BAE System's       Chairman's Award.
In 2007, it received a Bronze level for providing       powerful decision-support for the UK Fleet Planners managing ATTAC, the       strategic availability contract for the UK Tornado fleet valued in the       region of &#163;1.5 billion [5.8] and in 2008, a Silver level.
In 2009, Aroxo, an internet sales channel using heuristic negotiation       algorithms developed as part of MBC and ALADDIN, was launched.
Jennings       worked with Aroxo's development teams to refine and scale the fundamental       algorithms to enable online retailers to dynamically set prices for       products in response to customer online bids.
At its peak in 2011, the       Aroxo marketplace controlled stock worth &#163;10 million and dealt with up to       20,000 interactions per day [5.2; 5.9].
AICG research has led to improved performance in existing businesses.
BAE       Systems, in particular, has directly invested over &#163;4 million (not       including contributions in kind) in AICG research since 2005.
In 2009,       this enabled Jennings and Rogers to work with BAE staff to deploy the       max-sum coordination algorithm to the problems of Force Threat Evaluation       and Weapon Assignment (within Insyte's Combat Management System CMS-1)       and, in 2010, for the collaborative control of multiple unmanned aerial       vehicles and sensors [5.3, 5.10].
In both cases, the algorithms improved       the performance of military platforms and sensors by enabling coordination       to maximise operational effect.
This work produced two patents and       differentiating technologies that, since 2008, helped BAE secure &#163;2       million in Ministry of Defence funding.
This includes: i) BAE's selection       to lead the Autonomous Systems Underpinning Research programme       (approximate value &#163;1 million); ii) a contract to demonstrate the benefit       of agent-based computing in the context of the Network-Enabled Air Defence       Surveillance programme (value &#163;500k); and iii) &#163;170k in Centre for Defence       Enterprise funding to demonstrate the application of agent-based computing       methods in defence (ISTAR) and security (intelligence processing) problems       [5.10].
BAE Systems has also invested a significant amount of its Central       Technology Programme research budget (worth over &#163;1 million in 2012-13) on       projects related to autonomy and agent-based computing that have been       informed by Southampton's work and their ongoing relationship with       Southampton researchers.
Further economic benefits were created through the university-owned       business development agency ECS Partners Limited.
Since 2008, they have       secured commercial contracts involving the application of AICG agent tools       and techniques worth &#163;85k for: the Defence Science and Technology       Laboratory, with respect to military logistics and for BAE Systems Insyte       with respect to supply chain logistics; dismounted infantry patrols and       autonomous power management [5.4].
The performance of other companies has been improved through AICG       provision of training courses drawing upon this body of research.
For       example, across 2009/10, AICG staff ran three five-day intensive schools       for 45 engineers from Roke Manor Research, BAE Systems, MBDA, Rolls-Royce       and SELEX Galileo on agent-based techniques for defence applications       [5.10].
In terms of societal impact, prediction algorithms developed by Rogers as       part of ALADDIN, were deployed in a BAE prototype tool used to help the UK       Sailing Team in the 2012 Olympics.
The tool enabled improved accuracy of       weather pattern forecasting in Weymouth Bay and Portland Harbour, with a       view to providing the UK team with a competitive advantage [5.5, 5.10].
In 2010/11, ORCHID-derived coalition formation algorithms were       incorporated into a large-scale agent-based disaster simulation platform       that has impacted on public policy and services in Hampshire.
Overseen by       Ramchurn, Hampshire County Council's Emergency Planning Unit used the       simulation to identify potential choke points in road networks and more       accurately estimate civilian evacuation times for high-risk areas.
For       example, the Southampton-enabled simulation showed that the one hour       estimated to evacuate Fawley Village needed to be revised upwards to three       hours.
As a direct result, Hampshire has enacted new congestion control       strategies and changed its official operating procedures [5.11].
British Antarctic Survey scientists have benefited from work by Jennings       and Martinez to coordinate sampling and information exchange in sensor       networks, through the deployment of algorithms since 2012.
Tools developed       at Southampton were used to record temperature, pressure and orientation       changes in the Briksdalsbreen glacier, Norway, providing new insights into       the impact of climate change [5.6].
The Briksdalsbreen technology has       received considerable media attention from, among others, BBC News at Ten       [5.7] leading to increased public knowledge and awareness of climate       change.
Further public impact has been felt through use of the       Briksdalsbreen findings in presentations on global warming by the Al Gore       Climate Project in 2008 [5.12].
