 The Beazley Archive Online Database is a unique tool for all kinds of users, academic and non- academic, to carry out their own research and learning.
It facilitates and promotes study by school and university students, curators, businesses (including all the major international auction-houses), archaeological authorities, collectors, and other members of the public.
Giving access to thousands of images, descriptions and scholarly information, it enables users, e.g.
:  to study a phenomenal range of ancient iconography; to identify artefacts and make comparisons; to carry out provenance research; to discover for themselves previously unseen patterns and correlations among the data.
Numerous search and filtering methods are available to users according to their needs and level of specialism &#8212; from simple searches in selected portions of the Database to complex searches (up to c. 30 search fields), a mapping function, statistical tools, etc.
for the pottery records.
These facilities allow a huge variety of users to generate their own information, ideas, and questions, profiting from the intellectual `capital' invested through the research that created the Database.
The database is freely available through the internet.
It is visually accessible and further accompanied by webpages designed to have a broad appeal (e.g.
introductions to vase-painting and gems).
The extent of use and diversity of users are attested by server logs and Google Analytics, other websites and publications referring to the Database, and the testimony of colleagues and other users.
For example, in the year to 31 July 2013: 592 `unique visitors' each day (c. 15,820 page views), from 160 countries, especially North America, UK, the rest of Europe, Australasia, Japan, India, and the Middle East.
Optional user registrations offer more detail: 2,647 registrations in the census period with at least 455 from outside higher education, including 238 high schools, 64 commercial organisations, 68 museums, and 85 (inter-)governmental bodies/authorities etc.
They include Italian and Greek Ministries of Education and Culture/ Tourism; and other cultural/archaeological authorities in Greece, Italy, Germany, and the Netherlands.
The positive impact of the wide and genuine accessibility of this intellectual and cultural resource can be traced in various contexts, notably those summarized below: The Art/Antiquities Trade[1, 2] The Database is routinely used in the art trade.
It is essential for gathering information and scholarly judgements about collection history, authorship, date, meaning, and comparanda for Greek vases and engraved gems.
Such information has an often dramatic effect on the value and saleability of the material, as well as fostering good practice in provenance research.
Consequently, catalogues of the main international auction houses now cite Beazley Archive Database numbers in provenance information.
Scrutinising the Antiquities Trade[i, ii] The Database is equally used by those combating the looting and illegal trade in antiquities.
Prominent critics of the trade use the Database to establish whether works for sale have been in circulation before the 1970 UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.
It is the first recourse for those wanting to check whether a Greek vase has a long history above the ground, and thereby to scrutinise the wider practices of the trade.
Museums Curators in museums with relevant collections routinely use the Database to understand their own objects.
It has led to important new discoveries.
For example, between 2009 and 2011, the Getty Museum in Los Angeles used the Database to help discover that one of its most famous ancient `Roman' gems is, in fact, 19th-century[3].
Dr Alexandra Villing at the British Museum states `We are... using the Beazley Archive database regularly here for our own research ... and I often refer students and members of the public to it as well if they have any queries relating to vases or gems... a phenomenally useful resource'[4].
Student Learning The Database has been used to inform teaching materials and textbooks aimed at undergraduates studying ancient pottery[iii].
Many university libraries internationally refer students to the Database in lists of online resources[iv].
Undergraduates use the Database for assembling images for written assessments.
Public Education/Private Information The Database is used to inform online resources such as Wikipedia (where it is regularly cited), which then serve to disseminate the product of the underpinning research further in different forms[v].
Online references to the Database and anecdotal evidence (including messages of thanks) attest to the fact that it has transformed private individuals' understanding of ancient works of art or objects in personal collections (e.g.
enabling them to identify, date, value and interpret objects and images)[vi].
The database ranks high in relevant Google searches and appears in 40+ online resources for students and the public created by university libraries, museums etc., including the European Commission's openeducationeuropa.eu
