     There are 10 million people with hearing loss in the UK and 0.2 million       with severe to profound hearing loss may require cochlear implants.
Around       the world there are 220,000 people with cochlear implants.
The research       carried out at ISVR has had a direct impact on the lives of such people,       as well as the quality of clinical service and national health policies       for cochlear implantation.
The ISVR research described in Section 2 has had a substantial impact on       UK national health policies.
In 2009, the South of England Cochlear       Implant Centre (now University of Southampton Auditory Implant Service) at       the ISVR performed its first simultaneous bilateral cochlear implants, and       since then about 150 patients have received bilateral cochlear implants       nationally.
The research led by ISVR on the benefits of bilateral cochlear       implants, and research on educational outcomes for children with implants &#8212; with ISVR as one of main contributors &#8212; were cited in the guideline       published by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence       (NICE) [8, 9].
Lutman was invited to contribute to this guideline       on the basis of his expertise gained through the underpinning research.
The guideline recommends bilateral cochlear implantation for all children       and some adults.
The ISVR's research examining the best age for children to receive       implants provided direct evidence for designing other guidelines for       professionals dealing with deaf people, including national guidelines on       cochlear implantation for children and young people [10] used by       the 22 cochlear implant centres in the UK in their clinical work.
Similarly, the guidance Criteria of candidacy for unilateral cochlear         implantation in post-lingual deafened adult' (see section 3 of [3])       designed by several groups with substantial input from ISVR research and       published in 2004, continues to be widely used in most cochlear implant       centres in the UK.
The questionnaires developed by Lutman at ISVR have been widely used as       research and clinical tools.
The CAP questionnaire has been translated       into at least 13 languages by The Ear Foundation of the UK [16].
It has become a standard assessment tool for patients with cochlear       implants in worldwide clinical centres and is widely used for patient       selection, performance prediction and outcome rating.
Countries using the       questionnaire in clinical studies have included Thailand [11]; in       a study of 143 children, 164 children in Finland [12]; a study of       164 children receiving the devices; and a study of 44 children in China [13].
Both the CAP and the parent questionnaire, PARQ, have been used as indices       in the cost-effectiveness calculation for cochlear implantation, which is       a key factor influencing health policy [17], [18].
At the patient       level, ISVR has performed more than 500 unilateral implantations since       2008 and conducted the first pioneering bilateral implantation in the UK       in 2009, providing very significant quality of life improvements for each       of these patients and their families.
More widely, ISVR's research has       indirectly improved clinical services through the policies and guidelines       mentioned above for about 11,000 existing and 1,000 new implant users per       year in the UK.
Patients report exceptionally high levels of satisfaction       from clinical services provided by the ISVR.
The following is typical of       self-report from such patients: "I still can't find words to express how       overjoyed I am with the result so far, and how appreciative I am of all       the help and understanding I've been given.
I can now take an active part       in life again &#8212; truly "life after deaf".
[14]     The life-changing nature of cochlear implants was celebrated and brought       to the attention of a wider public through a highly unusual public event       in Southampton in September 2012, a concert of musical works by Benjamin       Oliver specifically composed for cochlear implant users, attended by over       100 people [15].
The concert and musical piece led directly from       work conducted by ISVR researcher Rachel van Besouw (lecturer in       Audiology, working at ISVR since 2007) which has highlighted the       difficulties cochlear implant users experience.
