     The improved accuracy and cost-effectiveness of large-eddy simulations in       urban environments       gives rise to a number of benefits.
Firstly, the companies that supply the       Computational Fluid       Dynamics (CFD) codes that facilitate a cutting-edge approach in this field       enjoy a competitive       advantage [5.1-5.3].
Secondly, enhanced understanding and       numerical prediction lead to better       and more efficient design and superior safety assessment [5.4, 5.5].
Thirdly, AFM's research has       significantly strengthed the companies' modelling capability [5.6-5.9].
Details of all this are given       below.
CD-adapco is the world's largest independent provider of       engineering simulation software, support       and services.
Based in the UK and with 30 offices around the world, it       employs 700 staff and has a       client base of more than 7,000 users and 3,000 firms.
In 2010, in direct       response to its customers'       needs, the company implemented AFM's new inflow turbulence generation       method as a plug-in for       its CFD software [5.1-5.3], which is specifically geared towards       satisfying the growing legislative       emphasis on sustainability and emissions.
In May 2011 CD-adapco released a beta program, STAR-CD v4.16, which       included a User Manual       relating to the new method.
This Manual was developed in collaboration       with Xie and Castro.
A       month later the company made AFM's method available to its client base in       an official version of       STAR-CD [5.3].
A number of CD-adapco's users have been using the method.
Dr Fred Mendonca,       CD-adapco's Director of Aeroacoustics, has remarked that     "We appreciate indeed the successful collaboration with your Southampton         University group       in the last few years... We view your research in this area as       being of direct value to the       sectors.... Utilisation of our software with your sub-models       implemented enhances       fundamental learning and numerical prediction in these sectors", adding:       "Our software use       among a worldwide client-base exceeds 7000, an increasing proportion of       which uses LES       modelling where your methodology has a direct impact " [5.1].
One of the major companies to have used AFM's method is Ove Arup and         Partners Ltd. (Arup),       which is widely recognised as among the world's leading design and       engineering firms.
Arup is       based in the UK and employs over 11,000 people worldwide, with 10,000       projects active at any       one time.
On 20th September 2007, Prof Castro presented       an invited talk for Arup on CFD/LES       approaches to a Wind Engineering Design Workshop for architects and urban       &amp; city planners, held       at Tate Modern.
In November 2011, Arup invited AFM to help with       the preliminary estimation of       wind loads on the Gerald Desmond Bridge Replacement, a structure with a       1000ft main span and       a unique cross-section planned for construction in California [5.4].
The replacement bridge will be       two miles long, including over 6,000ft of elevated approach viaducts up to       200ft high.
Dr Ngai       Yeung has commented that     "Having looked into your group's very helpful simulations, we       have more confidence to use       such aero-coefficients for preliminary sizing before a sectional model       wind tunnel testing is       carried out...".
AFM's work has also helped Arup to generate a better cost       estimation in time.
The joint venture &#8212; which       includes Arup (who is the design lead) &#8212; submitted a design-build proposal       earlier in 2012       that was selected as the "best-value" proposal, and was awarded a US$649.5       million design-build       contract in July 2012.
As a result of this successful collaboration, in July 2012 Arup began to       adopt AFM's methods in all       LES applications for commercial projects, beginning with a stadium being       designed in Doha, Qatar,       for the 2022 World Cup [5.5].
More recently, Arup has used these       methods for the Vanquish high-rise       building project in the City of London.
Dr Ender Ozkan has commented that     "The initial computational flow simulations that were carried out with       the support of Dr Xie's         team have helped provide a vital understanding of wind-related       issues by the client ahead of       the wind tunnel tests.
This in turn improved the efficiency of the       subsequent wind tunnel       tests and Arup's standing on the project.
This has demonstrated that we       have been paving       the way for using such tools more regularly in the future" [5.5].
Dr Ender Ozkan has also commented that     "For many years the ability to accurately simulate turbulent wind flows       around bluff structures       has been outside the grasp of commercial firms such as ours.
But nowadays,       with the help of       collaborations such as the current industrial CASE project with University         of Southampton,       we are starting to use such computational techniques for various projects       across the world",       adding "This (AFM) calibrated inflow method improves the accuracy       of our simulations       greatly" [5.5].
Dr Ozkan has indicated Arup's intention to reduce its dependence on       wind-tunnel labs and instead       focus on LES, using AFM's turbulence inflow techniques [5.5].
AFM researchers have also worked to raise awareness of the value       of precise and cost-effective       LES across a wider range of sectors, e.g., Buro Happold and German       SME Ingenieurb&#252;ro       Lohmeyer GmbH &amp; Co. KG [5.6-5.8].
Dr Marcus Letzel, a       Senior Scientist at Lohmeyer, has       commented "Without your method, we would not be able to produce       satisfactory OpenFOAM LES       results with our limited computational resources" [5.7].
Wider outreach efforts have included lectures and presentations to the Atmospheric         Dispersion         Modelling Liaison Committee (Didcot, September 2009), the Environment         Agency (Cardiff,       March 2011) and the UK Wind Engineering Society (London, September       2011).
The editor of       Benchmark, the magazine for members of the National Agency for Finite         Element Methods and         Standards, described an article by Dr Xie in the October       2011 edition as     "...of interest to all readers, regardless of the technologies or       industries you focus on",       adding "This is what NAFEMS is all about &#8212; the sharing and discussion of       new techniques,       applications and findings within a community of like-minded individuals       who share a passion       for analysis and related technologies" [5.9].
