     The research described has been crucial in enabling the aerospace       industry to produce more fuel efficient, longer lasting engines and       aircraft at reduced cost.
The roll-out of the DATUM project results across all R-R businesses       worldwide began in 2008.
As a direct result of the project, the use of       unit cost modelling tools applicable at different levels from whole engine       to feature, and from preliminary to detailed design, offers Rolls-Royce a       novel capability to facilitate the dialogue between design and       manufacture.
The roll-out is on-going both in the United States and       Germany.
In 2008, Professor Scanlan was given the Rolls-Royce R&amp;T       Directors Award for Creativity in recognition of the under-pinning       research.
In the last four years, the tool has been further developed and       integrated into design optimisation workflows [5.1].
Throughout the impact assessment period, Scanlan has been the Director       (and founder) of a spin-out business based on his academic research.
Plexus Planning Ltd, founded in 2003, now has a turnover of over &#163;500,000,       with annual growth of over 20%.
Plexus has developed a software toolkit       that enables massively complex problems to be simplified.
For example,       Plexus was used by Boeing to help find high risk problems in a network of       over 500,000 suppliers.
This enables the representation of a wide range of       management problems from project planning to supply chain management.
In       2011, Plexus was chosen by Rolls-Royce as a strategic tool which has since       been rolled out across their global IT infrastructure.
This ensures that       the widest possible community within Rolls-Royce is able to make use of       the research of the Southampton UTC following a &#163;300k licence deal [5.1].
Plexus has now established a strong reputation within the aerospace       industry, with customers including Airbus (since 2005 [5.2]), Boeing       (2007), Bombardier (2004) and the UK Ministry of Defence (2009).
In 2011,       the US Navy bought Plexus licences to model all concept design work.
Another tool developed as a direct result of the research is the Optimat       toolkit, a collection of optimization tools that plug into Rolls-Royce's       chosen integration framework (Isight).
From 2009, this toolkit was made       available to Rolls-Royce staff worldwide for strategic design improvement       work on aero-engine components.
It makes use of advanced surrogate       modelling methods that offer world leading capability for dealing with       problems with multiple goals and multiple levels of analysis fidelity.
For       example, this toolkit was used in the improvement process for the fan in       the Trent 1000 engine used in the latest Boeing 787 airliner now entering       service.
A study carried out by R-R engineers in December 2009 showed that       Optimat doubled the gains being made by computational studies of the fan       system as compared to the previously used approach.
[5.1]     As a direct result of the research into stochastic analysis methods, in       2010 these methods were inserted into the Rolls-Royce production finite       element analysis system (SC03).
This permits an assessment of the impact       of manufacturing and operational uncertainty on the lives of critical       engine components up to ten times more quickly than by conventional       approaches.
The results of the research are now being used in the       development of the high pressure turbine assembly of the R-R Trent XWB       engine for the next generation Airbus mid-range airliner, for which R-R       has more than 500 orders worldwide.
In 2012, Scanlan and Keane facilitated the setting up of a new company,       Solair Aviation Ltd, in collaboration with a local company and local       investors, using the sophisticated computational engineering modelling       developed by their team.
The company is developing a new piloted micro       light aircraft (The Swallow) under a licensing arrangement with the       university.
The local entrepreneur [5.3] who is supporting this initiative       has estimated that there will be a market of over 100 Swallow aircraft per       annum with an eventual turnover of over &#163;6 million.
Scanlan's work on unmanned systems under the DECODE project led to him       assisting an ex-Southampton PhD student to develop an autopilot for       unmanned air vehicles.
This in turn led to the creation of a successful       spin-out business called SkyCircuits in 2010 (http://www.skycircuits.com/)       of which Scanlan is now a director, assisting its growth and development.
This company has a large number of customers to whom it has sold over       &#163;100k worth of autopilot systems including the MET office and several       leading airborne surveying companies, including QuestUAV and CAllen Lenz.
In addition the systems have been bought by Bath, Cranfield and Reading       Universities.
Some aspects of the research have attracted strong public interest,       leading to widespread international publicity.
This is true in particular       of the team's work developing the world's first plane manufactured wholly       through 3D printing using laser sintering (SULSA).
Publications that       reported this development in detail included BBC online (February 2011);       the New Scientist [5.4]; the Los Angeles Times; MSN India; the Irish Times       (all August 2011) and others.
These articles, all written for       non-specialist audiences, enhanced understanding of the new technology and       its practical significance among the wider public.
A YouTube video of the       SULSA project has now attracted over 200,000 viewings.
In November 2010, Scanlan - on the strength of his research activities       and excellent industry connections &#8212; was invited to organise a seminar on       Design Search for leading aerospace industry and academic experts, which       was held at the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, London.
