     Southampton's research in collaboration with Finsbury Orthopaedics led to       the production of two CE-marked orthopaedic implants `DeltaMotion&#174;'       and `DeltaSurf&#174;', and a portfolio of simulation and test       verification data.
Southampton's contribution to the collaboration, built       upon their internationally leading implant testing and analysis       reputation, was the development of dedicated new test methods and       computational techniques to evaluate the implants' strength and       biomechanics.
These techniques were adopted by the company and generated       pre-clinical verification evidence, allowing the implants to achieve       regulatory approval throughout Europe, in Asia and Australia, and to       commence clinical use.
Health and socioeconomic impact has followed,       described below, with a variety of beneficiaries including patients,       healthcare providers, UK PLC and more widely in several UK and EU       small/medium enterprises.
Finsbury collaborated solely with the Bioengineering Science Research       Group at UoS in this development, and their then-technical director Dr       Andy Taylor [5.7] stated that Prof. Browne and Dr Dickinson's work       "produced a technology base which allowed us to realise the innovative         design concepts produced at the company, and exploit them commercially.
The analysis and testing methods which they developed enabled us to         transform concepts into products at the backbone of a multi-million         pound business, which were a primary stimulus for the company's         purchase."
Health Impact: The new hip replacement implant system, developed       and demonstrated by Southampton's analysis methods, is still unique in the       market [5.1] and has benefited young patients with degenerative       joint conditions.
The first implant, DeltaMotion&#174;, has been in clinical       use since November 2008, with over 9800 cups implanted globally, primarily       in the EU, Australia and India.
The second product, the DeltaSurf&#174; ceramic       head, has been successfully trialled in cadavers.
Mr Jeremy Latham,       orthopaedic surgeon on the DeltaSurf development panel, and user of the       DeltaMotion system, provides a continuing surgical link with Prof Browne       and Dr Dickinson, and lists DeltaSurf as `one to watch' [5.6].
The initial DeltaMotion surgeon users published clinical results of 100%       cup survival at two years [5.2].
National orthopaedic implant       registry data reports good initial clinical results amongst the wider       surgeon population (99.1% implant survival at one year [5.3]), an       improvement upon the most popular existing total hip replacement implants       (97.7-98.8%), in a more demanding group of young, active patients.
The       design is particularly effective in restoring natural movement in younger       patients, as attested to by one of the first UK patients in an email to       her surgeon: "It has made a huge difference to my life.
I am now able         to do things that I had not been able to do for years.
I am back to         going to the gym... and I am able to walk for miles, which is something         I had not been able to do for some time without being in a lot of pain."
These initial clinical trends suggest that the advances made possible by       the research may lower the rate of early post-operative failures for metal       sensitivity reactions.
If this trend continues, the likelihood of revision       surgery &#8212; and with it the associated pain, trauma and psychological burden       for patients &#8212; will be reduced, as will the cost of such procedures for       healthcare providers, estimated at over &#163;100 million/year in the UK.
Economic Impact: This research also delivered a range of benefits       for Finsbury Orthopaedics Ltd in relation to intellectual property,       increased turnover and import sales and the company's eventual sale [5.4].
In Australia, DeltaMotion&#174; achieved 2.5% market share in its first year [5.3],       against established systems with a decade of clinical heritage.
Design       aspects of the implants led to the application for four patents.
9800       implantations are reported in the first four years from clinical release       in November 2008 [5.9], which generated considerable sales [exact       figure removed for publication], of which over 70% came from abroad.
According to Finsbury's MD, Mike Tuke [5.8], DeltaMotion and       DeltaSurf strengthened the company's product portfolio and the supporting       IP played a major role in Finsbury's survival of the economic downturn and       eventual sale, in November 2009, to DePuy International for an undisclosed       sum.
DePuy's press releases emphasise that Finsbury's ceramic hip products and       patent applications were a key stimulus for the company's purchase [5.4],       echoed by Dr Taylor's testimonial [5.7].
The importance of these       implant systems and the remaining products in development also led DePuy       to invest three years' funding in the spin-out of Aurora Medical Ltd from       Finsbury's R&amp;D and design teams.
Aurora employs five       full-time-equivalent employees to develop these pipeline products on       Southampton Science Park, a start-up business incubator for the University       of Southampton.
Dr Paul Naylor, KTP Advisor for the TSB [5.10] reports that this       partnership has been widely acknowledged as an example of best practice to       help encourage other KTPs.
The partnership has featured as a showcase       example at several KTP seminars and at the 2009 Collaborate2Innovate event       for entrepreneurs, businesses and innovation specialists.
The UoS-Aurora       partnership won the Engineering Excellence Award and the Best Partnership       Award (South East Region) at the KTP Awards 2011 [5.5], and was       shortlisted at the 2009 Technology &amp; Innovation Awards (The         Engineer magazine).
Professional recognition came with the BIOLOX       Award at the 13th International Symposium for Bioceramics and Alternative       Bearings in Joint Arthroplasty.
Helping to inspire a wider appreciation of science and technology,       researchers have presented the research at 7 school visit days and several       Smallpeice/Dragonfly/HeadStart courses, to over 230 GCSE and A-Level       students (15-18 years), and to younger students (13-14 years) in the `Meet       the Scientist' programme.
Students picked out the UoS/Finsbury       presentations as "really informative" and said that the courses "persuaded         me to continue with engineering and look into a career possibly in         biomechanics, but definitely engineering" (2010 Smallpeice Trust       Biomedical Engineering Course Report to IPEM).
The project has also       supported four Bioengineering Research Group summer internships for       undergraduate students, who have gone on to postgraduate research and       industrial engineering careers.
