     Southampton's long research into hand-arm vibration syndrome has       influenced company practice around the world, demonstrated the need to       tackle the disease and raised its profile on the policy agenda, provided       health services with more effective diagnostic tools, and helped control       the risks for millions of workers, of whom more than 1.2 million are at       risk in the UK.
The EU Physical Agents (vibration) Directive (2002/44/EC) published in       2002 required member states to start implementing measures to control the       risks of hand-transmitted vibration by 2005.
With the Europe-wide policy       legally binding for every employer in the European Union, Griffin led the       preparation of the EU Guide to Good Practice on Hand-Arm Vibration,       published in 22 languages by the European Commission [5.1].
The       guide shows member countries how to implement the EU Physical Agents       (vibration) Directive, and is also widely used outside the EU.
The HFRU has been in the vanguard of the development of standards related       to on human responses to vibration.
Griffin is chair of the BSI       sub-committee on human responses to vibration.
The hand-transmitted       vibration research of Professor Griffin is cited in ISO 5349-1:2001,       ISO/DIS 10819:2011, ISO 13091-1:2001, ISO 14835-1:2005, ISO 14835-2:2005,       ISO PD 12349:1997.
These standards are the basis of the EU Physical Agents       (vibration) Directive, the EU Machinery Safety Directive, and means of       controlling exposures to hand-transmitted vibration and diagnosing       disorders.
They are in constant use by industry and government.
The HVLab instruments developed and produced in the ISVR are in       use in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Italy, Sweden, Finland, USA,       Japan, and South Africa to decide whether workers have HAVS, assess the       adequacy of preventative measures, decide on the termination of work with       vibratory tools, and assist courts in ruling on compensation.
Initially,       it was necessary to standardise the methodology and determine normal       values for the measures &#8212; values that are now used to decide on future       employment and the compensation of workers [5.2].
Having       established their validity in fundamental research, the HFRU obtained       certification to ISO 13485 so the HVLab instruments could be       CE-marked and sold for diagnosis in hospitals by occupational health       physicians [5.3].
The HFRU, which is also certified to ISO 9001,       sells the specialist HVLab diagnostic instruments world-wide,       including to hospitals in Japan with more stringent medical       instrumentation standards [5.4].
More than 150 units have been       sold in the past 10 years to the approximate value of &#163;1.25 million       (excluding accessories, upgrades, and servicing) with revenues used to       fund related PhD research at the ISVR.
The HVLab vibrometer and       thermal aesthesiometer are in current use by the Department of Work and       Pensions, DWP, at 41 sites run by Atos Healthcare across the UK to assess       compensation of prescribed disease A11 in British workers [5.5].
Previously, HVLab instruments were used to decide on compensation       for HAVS among more than &#189; million coal miners [5.6].
The range of HVLab instruments &#8212; vibrometer, thermal       aesthesiometer, and plethysmograph &#8212; is also used in research centres that       combine research with the clinical assessment of patients, including the       UK Health and Safety Laboratory in Buxton, the Human Factors Research       Unit, the University Hospital in Trieste (Italy), and Yamaguchi University       School of Medicine (Japan).
Such international collaboration with clinical       researchers is needed to agree on diagnostic methods in an area where       there are many affected workers but few UK experts.
The specialised nature       of the equipment and the current state of understanding mean that many       involved in the diagnosis of HAVS require more support than is available       from a solely commercial organisation, so the HFRU provides on-going       training in the diagnosis of HAVS for users of the instrumentation and       operates a telephone support system for nurses and physicians using HVLab       equipment.
The experience gained from users provides additional experience       of industrial applications of the diagnostic methods, leading to improved       techniques, developments of the relevant international standards (ISO       13091-1, ISO 14835-1, and ISO 14835-2), and advice to the government's       Industrial Injuries Advisory Council on the appropriateness of the       diagnostic methods.
Research at Southampton has increased awareness (within industry, policy,       and legal circles) of the disease, leading to a considerable rise in the       number of workers receiving compensation following the first significant       HAVS compensation court case in the 1980s.
Subsequent pressure from       insurance companies &#8212; compensation for loss of earnings to highly skilled       young workers can reach up to half a million pounds &#8212; has ensured       employers set in place measures to reduce the likelihood of HAVS.
Following some confusion in the courts, Griffin reviewed the alternative       methods of deciding on compensation and defined a fairer means of deciding       on employer negligence [5.7].
HFRU research into vibration discomfort (with Morioka 1999 - 2013) led to       the development of the only frequency weightings suitable for predicting       the discomfort caused by hand-transmitted vibration over a range of       vibration magnitudes.
It was first used in US motorbike industry and is       now used more widely in the transport industries where it remains the only       available guidance.
Since its inception in 1972, the HFRU has played a leading role in the       organisation and promotion of the `International Conference on Hand-Arm       Vibration', which brings together industry, governments, and academia       every four years.
This is the only international forum for engineers,       scientists, and medical researchers.
In invited plenary presentations, the       HFRU has raised the importance of HAVS in developing countries and was       instrumental in the Chinese government offering to host the 2015       conference.
In 2013, Griffin is advising a large group of Chinese       companies that recently experienced an outbreak of the HAVS with major       consequences to production.
Efforts have also been made to raise the       profile of the disease in Africa, collaborating with the University of       Pretoria on studies in goldmines and advising local industry, in a country       where awareness was very low.
The HFRU's international efforts led to the       Taylor Award by the International Advisory Committee on Hand-Arm Vibration       at the International Conference on Hand-Arm Vibration in Ottawa in 2011 &#8212;       recognising that the HFRU research had advanced understanding in such a       way as to assist the prevention of the effects of hand-arm vibration,       influencing tool design, anti-vibration devices and the recognition and       diagnosis of the HAVS.
The citation states: "The Human Factors Research         Unit has been at the forefront of research and development for almost         half a century.
Their contributions over the years to the understanding         of human response to hand-arm vibration have been wide-ranging and         comprehensive, and the excellence of their work has been acknowledged         internationally.
The impact of this leading centre for teaching,         research and consultancy on hand-arm vibration is manifest world-wide".
