     The EST report containing the data and analysis provided by the       University of Southampton was widely covered in the national and regional       media in July 2009, including on BBC News, and the University of       Southampton researchers gave a number of media interviews [5.1].
The       research was frequently cited in reports about the problems besetting       manufacturers of micro-wind turbines; one manufacturer, Ampair, was forced       to amend the specification of their Ampair600 device as a result of this       study.
B&amp;Q and Windsave are two examples of major players in the       micro-wind market to whom James delivered presentations about the research       and its implications in 2008.
After the report was formally released,       B&amp;Q withdrew from micro-wind generation altogether, refunding       customers who had bought its domestic wind turbines [5.2].
Its turbine       supplier, Windsave, ceased trading within two months of the release of the       EST report, citing their products being dropped by B&amp;Q as part of the       reason on their website.
Another major impact of the research has been to halt the practice of       siting significant numbers of micro-wind turbines in the built environment       and to persuade the industry to be far more circumspect about site       selection if it wants to avoid the charge of mis-selling its products.
According to the Small Wind Systems: UK Market Report 2012       published by the British Wind Energy Association (BWEA &#8212; see [5.4]) there       were only 4 building-mounted turbines installed in 2011, compared to a       peak of 1054 in 2007.
In contrast, the pole-mounted market (1.5-15 kW) was       975 turbines in 2011, an increase of 57% on the 2007 figure.
The total       sales value of the UK micro-wind industry in 2011 was &#163;50 million.
The new       focus is on mounting turbines on poles in rural locations &#8212; BWEA, cited       Southampton's research in its assessment of the potential for farm-based       micro-wind turbines [see 5.5].
The BWEA states that manufacturers forecast       industry-wide revenue to rise by up to 176% in 2012, with the predominant       share coming from the 1.5-15kW and 15-100kW market segments [5.4].
Another direct result of the research has been a tightening of training       standards with the Micro-generation Certification Scheme in respect to       micro-wind in particular, and a revision of the Building Research       Establishment's Standard Assessment Procedure (SAP), the methodology used       to generate Energy Performance Certificates for homes in England and Wales       [5.1] Internationally, the data generated by Southampton [5.6] has fed       into an International Electrotechnical Commission study on wind classes       and turbulence intensity IEC MT2 led by Dr. Jonathon Whale of the       Australian Small Wind Turbine Centre [5.1, 5.7].
The DECC used the work as       further evidence to accelerate the switch from `up-front' grants to       feed-in tariff (FIT) based subsidies, on the basis that FITs reward       generation not installation and spell out to potential customers a       turbine's failure to deliver a clear financial return [5.8].
FIT came into       effect in April 2010, and the setting of the level of tariff for the       feed-in for micro-wind was informed by Southampton's research.
The DECC       also incorporated the findings into its UK 2050 energy pathway analysis       [3.6] which examined possible future scenarios for the part played by       micro-wind generation.
In addition, the data generated was used to       validate an interactive tool on the EST website allowing members of the       public to enter their postcodes to discover if their location was suitable       for siting a micro-wind generator [5.9].
A more comprehensive assessment       tool is offered by the Carbon Trust and this too has been validated using       the micro-wind turbine dataset by Southampton University at the Carbon       Trust's request [5.10].
Both tools have been designed to help build public       confidence and reduce the risk of inappropriately sited systems being       installed which damage the industry and waste taxpayers' money if grant       support is offered.
