     Over the period 2007-09, the methods of pore pressure and bending moment       monitoring we had       developed were employed directly by the SGG to assess the performance       under variable tidal       loading of the twin-walled cofferdam for the St Germans pumping station on       the River Ouse in East       Anglia, for main contractor Costain.
This was at the time the largest       excavation in Europe.
Pore       pressures, bending moments and wall movements were monitoired continuously       using systems       developed and specified by SGG, and used in connection with a detailed       finite difference analysis       carried out by SGG in association with Mott MacDonald to draw up a plan       for safe working within       the cofferdam and, if necessary, controlled flooding to ensure its       stability under a potential extreme       loading event.
The adoption of our research enabled the project to be       completed safely and on       time, saving an estimated &#163;15 million but more importantly mitigating the       very real risk potentially       posed to a large section of East Anglia during an anticipated spring tide       storm surge event [5.1].
Methods developed by Richards to measure and understand dynamic loading       events on       foundations have been applied to investigate the uplift capacity of       electricity transmission tower       foundations in response to a line breakage, as part of National Grid's       campaign to assess and if       necessary upgrade their network for the effects of climate change.
The       better understanding of the       dynamic uplift capacity of transmission tower foundations resulting from       the research has led to a       moratorium on strengthening, and an estimated cost saving of &#163;5-35 million       p.a.
since 2006 [5.2].
Research monitoring track-train interactions contributed to the decision       to modify the wheel profile       on the Hitachi Class 395 trains used on the High Speed 1 (HS1) line       between London and       Folkestone, which forms part of the Eurostar link to Europe.
All switches       and crossings (S&amp;C,       commonly known as "points") have sensors to indicate the position of the       blade or nose (open or       closed).
The introduction of the Hitachi Class 395's &#8212; the UK's fastest       commuter trains, with a top       speed of 140 mph &#8212; caused `points flicker', whereby a sensor would       indicate the switch to be open       when it was in fact closed.
As faulty S&amp;C were responsible for both       the Potters Bar and Grayrigg       disasters, in 2010 the HS1 team asked SGG to assist in identifying the       cause of the fault.
A further       issue was the susceptibility of the new trains to "hunting" (unstable       lateral oscillation of the bogies)       in tunnels, which was causing considerable passenger discomfort and alarm.
A six-month field trial,       using the novel instrumentation techniques developed at Southampton [3.4],       established that a       combination of the wheel profile and the suspension settings played a       major role in both problems,       leading to a number of Hitachi trains being fitted experimentally with       different profile wheels.
These       were closely monitored over several weeks to assess the effect of the new       wheel profiles and       suspension setting on hunting and points flicker.
The investigation was       carried out jointly by the       University of Southampton, the NR wheel-rail interface team, S&amp;C       manufacturers Vossloh Cogifer,       Hitachi and the train operating company South-Eastern.
Results       demonstrated the success of the       modifications, which were subsequently implemented across the entire Class       395 fleet of 174       vehicles (29 &#215; 6 car units) [5.3].
Other studies for HS1 have included       investigations into ballast       flight, jointly with Birmingham [5.4].
In Europe, ProRail, part of Dutch       railway infrastructure owner       NS Railinfratrust, has used SGG's research (in collaboration with       Deltares) to control rising       maintenance costs by identifying true mechanisms of track deterioration to       inform appropriate long-term       remedial measures [5.5].
Most railway track, both in the UK and worldwide, is founded on ballast.
This is a traditional form of       construction, but its performance limits are increasingly being tested as       train speeds and weights       and intensity of trafficking increase.
In 2006, SGG was approached by       Network Rail to investigate       areas of sporadic and unexplained ballast movement ("ballast migration")       on the UK West Coast       Main Line, apparent following the introduction of tilting trains.
Reported       incidences of track and       train-wheel faults had been increasing at certain curves, owing to the       gradual migration of ballast       from the high to the low rail potentially leading to trapping of ballast       particles between the wheel       and the rail.
A field investigation by the Southampton Geomechanics Group       using our track       monitoring techniques, and analysis of the results, identified the       potential causes of the problem.
Continuing work funded by Network Rail through the Future         Infrastructure Systems Strategic       Research Partnership aims to devise a range of appropriate remediation       techniques [5.6, 5.7].
Our expertise in ballasted track has been used in the design and       specification of a new, 400 km-long       railway line across the Arabian desert.
Facing a maintenance bill of       millions of pounds, Etihad       Rail, the promoter and eventual operator of this new rail link in the       United Arab Emirates, were       seeking to mitigate the problem of sand ingress into the ballast reducing       the life of both trains and       track.
In 2011, SGG developed laboratory test apparatus and procedures to       investigate how sand       ingress will affect the performance of the ballast bed.
This led to the       award of a recently-completed       &#163;106k research contract by the design and build contractor       Saipem-Dodsal-Tecnimont JV, the       results of which have helped shape a set of transformative track       specifications with the potential for       realising significant savings in future maintenance costs [5.8].
Monitoring and analysis of the influence of vegetation, weather and       climate on the behaviour of       infrastructure embankments and cuttings have influenced the standards that       guide industry       practice.
Work in collaboration with Network Rail, LUL and Mott MacDonald       has demonstrated that       the removal of mature vegetation has the potential to destabilise some       earthworks structures       during the winter, with both the species and proximity of vegetation and       the underslope drainage       conditions having a significant influence [5.9].
SGG has developed and       validated models enabling       the interactions between these and climate/weather to be quantified.
Both       Network Rail and LUL       are now using the understandings gained to identify the most appropriate       type of vegetation for       particular slopes and to define their management strategies for lineside       vegetation [5.7, 5.10].
Collaboration with Mott MacDonald led to the development of an improved       design approach for       discrete pile stabilisation of earthworks.
Our research demonstrated that       piles could be spaced       further apart than previously thought, providing infrastructure owners       with substantial cost savings       through the need to install fewer piles.
Savings of &#163;2.4 million and 6       months in time have been       identified on two jobs for LUL alone, and projected cost savings of       &#163;65-100 million over a five year       period [5.10].
Increased confidence in the approach led to its successful       use to stabilize part of the       Ironbridge Gorge UNESCO World Heritage site.
Through their engagement and leadership of RRUK, researchers at       Southampton have had a       pivotal impact on the revitalisation of railway research in UK       universities and its pull-through into       industry.
Southampton academic staff were instrumental in the formation of       the successor       organisation RRUKA, now being funded and run by RSSB to act as a link       between research       organisations and the UK rail industry.
We led an EPSRC Feasibility       Account, which resulted in the       development of at least six new research projects involving UK       universities and the UK rail       industry, including SUSTRAIL and SPECTRUM [5.7].
Powrie contributed to UK       Government policy       in rail through his membership of the Railway Technical Strategy Steering       Group, providing       industry-wide support and advice for the Railway Technical Strategy 2012.
