     Organic wastes produce greenhouse gases as they degrade.
The UK produces       around 16 Mt (Megatonnes) of domestic and commercial food waste each year:       anaerobic digestion (AD) with biogas recovery could generate 16 GWh/year       of renewable energy as methane, for injection into the gas grid, use as       vehicle fuel or conversion into electricity and heat.
The joint University of Southampton and Greenfinch pilot study, and       continued support for demonstration of this technology together with the       effective dissemination of results through workshops funded by the Waste       and Resources Action Programme (WRAP), has led to a rapid expansion in the       number of source-segregated food waste collection schemes and biogas       plants across the UK.
Further supporting research formed the key evidence       for the British Standard stability test for digestates in PAS 110 [5.1]       and has informed current EU-wide discussions on end of waste criteria.
Since 2006, 1.8 Mt of food waste digestion capacity has been established,       with the largest plant processing 120,000 tonnes/year and generating 6 MW       of electricity plus 5 MW of heat.
Currently ~75 MWe of power is supplied       to the grid and planning approval has been granted for a further 200       biogas plants in the UK.
Southampton's modelling of integrated waste       management through AD has demonstrated how environmental benefits can be       further increased through on-farm co-digestion with animal wastes, giving       greater reductions in GHG emissions and enhanced opportunities for       resource recovery.
The necessary permitting for such a scheme is currently       being drawn up by the Environment Agency and was the subject of an       industry-led workshop at the Anaerobic Digestion and Biogas Association       ADBA) conference (July, 2013).
The rapid expansion of food waste digestion in the UK following the       start-up and operation of the Defra demonstration plant [5.3] led to       further research [5.2] that has improved digestion efficiency and allowed       loadings on full-scale plant to be more than doubled without risk of       failure.
This has major commercial significance as the throughput of       already-constructed plant can be increased, giving additional revenue from       both gate fees for acceptance of waste material and sales of renewable       energy, and a reduction in capital payback periods.
In the case of new       plants, the capital costs of installation for a given waste stream can be       significantly reduced [5.4].
Research in collaboration with local authorities led to a number of       improvements in public recycling behaviour, infrastructure and       professional services between 2008-13, including an increase in diversion       rates away from landfill by over 20% in Lancashire and "significant and       sustained improvements" in the performance of a civic amenity site in       Plymouth as a result of the implementation of WMRG advice [5.5].
The       Development Director at leading waste management company Biffa said: "(The       economic) performance of the sector has been improved as a consequence of       the change in operational practices stimulated by this evidence."
[5.6]       Output from SUE Waste Consortium studies with third sector organisations       on reuse was incorporated into WRAP guidance in 2012-3 [5.1], informed the       development of Defra's National Waste Management Programme for England       (2010-1) and led to major changes in the GLA's policy on waste collection       from businesses [5.6].
Work on WEEE was used extensively in a high profile       but confidential waste-related legal case involving large multi-national       organisations at the High Court, with Williams giving evidence as the       environmental expert (Claim No.
HC09CO4852).
The &#8364;8.3 million ZeroWIN project (2009-14) involving SMEs and large       multi-nationals (including Hewlett Packard and Continental Tyres) from 11       countries [5.8] is creating innovative technologies, waste-prevention       methodologies, strategies and system tools based on the vision developed       by Curran and Williams [3.4].
This system uses a distinctive combination       of methods, tools, technology, design innovations and policy measures.
Companies have demonstrated via 10 case studies that the system works       successfully in practice and is commercially viable.
The vision has       facilitated the world's first eco labelled D4R laptop; was used as a       template for the refurbishment of the Deutsche Bank Twin Towers in       Frankfurt, which was awarded the highest possible (LEED Platinum and DGNB       Gold) certifications for their resource and energy efficiency in 2011       [5.7]; and stimulated the AU Optronics Corporation (Taiwan) in 2012 to       introduce new ISO environmental standards [5.8].
Involvement in the CLEAR       Info project with the Environment Agency (2011-4, LIFE 10 ENV UK 175),       which aims to obtain evidence for regulating companies, will allow       European regulators to share data across regulatory boundaries and       influence business decisions in the boardroom, enhancing the importance of       environmental risk in financial markets.
Other impact highlights in industry and business include Southampton       leading the development of European industrial networks in the automotive,       construction, electronics and photovoltaic sectors targeting 3 million       companies (&gt;20 million employees) with &#8364;2.8 trillion turnover and value       creation of &#8364;800 billion.
As an example, an industrial network between       Wiesauplast and Continental Tyres in Germany resulted in the design and       installation of a technologically advanced plastics mill in 2012 using       re-granulated recyclate to manufacture the control housing of       Continental's brake systems.
Continental manufactured 18 million control       housings in 2012, or 25% of the world total.
Williams and Shaw have contributed to raising awareness and understanding       of these waste management issues among the wider public through a number       of media appearances, including an article in the New Scientist (April       2008) and two in Materials Recycling World (2008 and 2013).
Williams also       appeared on BBC Radio 4's programme, "Costing the Earth: Greening the       Teens" in May 2011, and BBC World Service Global News in January 2012, a       service that enjoys a weekly international audience of around 40 million       [5.7].
In the areas of landfill engineering and pollution control, WMRG's       research findings have been used by industry (with authorisation from the       Environment Agency) to replace at least 300,000 tonnes of virgin aggregate       with tyre-derived products in landfill drainage systems since 2005 [5.9];       and consultants and landfill designers in hydrogeological risk       assessments, leachate balances and landfill stability/ settlement       assessments since 1999 [5.10].
In 2011-2 Powrie and Beaven acted as expert       witnesses in litigation associated with the notorious Cranbourne landfill,       near Melbourne, Australia (Supreme Court of Victoria Proceeding No.
9776       of 2008).
Beaven featured on BBC Radio 4's Costing the Earth on 8 October       2013, investigating landfill mining.
Powrie brought the whole experience of the WMRG to bear in his chairship       of the Technologies Advisory Committee for Defra's NTDP [3.2] between 2004       and 2010.
For example, studies led by Stringfellow, Senior Research       Fellow, with Powrie and involving Orchid Environmental Ltd on a full-       scale mechanical heat treatment system led to substantial improvements in       plant operation in Huyton, Liverpool in 2009 and a reduction in residual       waste material [3.2].
