     As a direct result of events organised and close links forged with       community, artistic, industrial and government leaders during her       research, Meinhof has been called upon to advise arts programme organisers       and EU policy makers.
The research has also influenced an investigation of       artists' rights by the Government of Madagascar and raised public       awareness of cultural diversity issues in Europe and Africa.
As part of TNMundi, Meinhof organised a series of       concerts/conferences in Antananarivo, Madagascar (November 2007, 200       participants), Rabat, Morocco (13-14/11/2008, 150 participants) and       Southampton (12-19/10/2009, 200 participants) [5.1].
All featured       resident and non-resident national musicians and focused on the role of       artists and their music within transnational networks resulting in a       raised awareness of the political, social, legal and economic concerns in       the relationship between countries of origin and migrants living in       Europe.
The two concerts held on 15/16 November 2007 in Antananarivo, bringing       together famous resident and non-resident Malagasy musicians, paved the       way for a wide range of impacts in the period 2008-13.
The first concert       played to a full capacity crowd of 200 government, industrial and cultural       leaders.
The second was attended by a public audience of 300 and was       broadcast live to an estimated 325,000 prime-time TV viewers.
This event       was widely reviewed and commented on in the media and was accompanied by       round table discussions including the then Madagascar Minister of Sport       and Culture, with significant impact in the following years on the       development of new structures for protecting authors' rights.
As a direct outcome of the successful Antananarivo concerts and       conference, in 2008 the musician Dama Mahaleo was among a number of       artists and others invited by the Madagascar Minister of Sport and Culture       to participate in several consultations on artists' rights and       cross-border artistic collaborations.
These consultations highlighted as a       particular concern the right of musicians to be identified as the authors       of, and economically benefit from, the recordings of their music and led       to the formation of the `Syndicate of Artists' (2012), which was charged       with investigating the protection of artists' rights and co-led by Dama       Mahaleo [5.2].
Dama had performed in all TNMundi concerts.
Within several       months he and a group of fellow TNMundi performers adopted       the name The Madagascar All-Stars and in 2009 they released a       debut album on the French Cinq Plan&#232;tes label [5.2].
After a       performance organised by Meinhof in the Turner Sims Concert Hall,       Southampton (November 2009, audience 200) the Editor of Songlines       magazine said: "What was interesting was ... the experience of being an       &#233;migr&#233; and of missing your homeland ....
I could see how beneficial the       shared experience was for (The All-Stars) but also for us as the       audience" [5.3].
Workshops were held in four local schools, and one master class for music       students in the Turner Sims, with the artists playing with children and       students.
A young saxophonist wrote: "Thank goodness I had run home before       the concert to grab my saxophone; I went over to thank the band after the       master class; they saw my sax and asked me to jam!
I don't think I will       ever forget it; for that brief moment I felt I had dipped into their       culture and world; it was very special.
After hearing them at the       lunchtime concert, I had to have more!
In the evening concert I felt       myself mouthing the familiar sounding words from before and even singing       out!
I had an interest in World music prior to experiencing the music from       the Madagascar All-Stars; but these guys made me hungry to seek       out more.
I could really relate to them, their music was so expressive and       meaningful.
When I play my saxophone, I feel as though I am trying to send       out similar vibes; I loved them!"
And the Headteacher of Bevois Town       Primary School said: "I found that the children related to the musicians       as they came from different countries.
They enabled the children to see       what could be done.
Some of the children were particularly impressed that       they were playing at the Turner Sims and that they (the children) had       played there last year.
It gave them a great feeling of pride."
[5.3]     The All-Stars were subsequently invited to Songlines'       Encounters Festival (9/6/12) [5.4].
Also resulting from a first       collaboration with the TNMundi project, musicians Erick       Manana (Malagasy) and Jenny Fuhr (German) formed a musical group.
They       played twice in concerts at the Paris Olympia (November 2009 and January       2013; 1772 seats, sold out), completed a successful concert tour of       Madagascar (June 2011) and released their debut album (January 2013) [5.5].
As a direct result of expertise gained and contacts made during her       research, Meinhof has also been asked to facilitate collaborations between       `world' musicians, cultural associations, NGOs such as the Freunde         Madagaskars in Munich, and music festivals such as the Rudolstadt       World Music festival 2009 and the Madagascar Festival in Weinheim 2013 [5.6].
As part of SeFoNe Meinhof, Armbruster and their research       partners organised cultural events (public concerts, exhibitions,       workshops in schools) for groups of between 50 and 200 in Hungary       (1-3/5/2009), Cyprus (22-23/5/2009), Slovakia (30/4-3/5 2009), and       Chemnitz (24/9/2009) and Bayreuth (29/10-1/11/2009) in Germany.
In       Bayreuth, a renowned German-Nigerian photographer trained schoolchildren       from under-privileged backgrounds in photography culminating in an       exhibition in a major gallery [5.7].
One of the young       participants, Fabian, wrote (translated from the German original): "I       learned to see things very differently.
Before I walked past without       noticing anything and would have thought: why would anyone bother to take       pictures of fences?"
[5.7]     Building on the initial findings from SeFoNe, Meinhof was       commissioned by the European Parliament to report on Cultural Diasporas.
The report, co-authored with Armbruster in 2008 and commended for its high       quality by two officials at the European Parliament, drew on research to       include empirically underpinned arguments to support the need to secure       better mobility for artists by improving residencies and visa regulations       [5.8].
The research was further disseminated at an EU conference       (Brussels 20/1/2010) attended by the European Economic and Social       Committee President of Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship [5.9].
In May 2013 Meinhof led a workshop on cultural diversity as part of the       Global Governance Programme at the European University Institute for 40       participants including diplomats, EU policymakers, representatives from       NGOs and business.
Feedback from the organisers said: "Your lecture got       among the highest evaluation marks ... .
We also felt it was most       appropriate for explaining to the participants in what ways cultural       diversity can become a true asset for employment and creativity" [5.10].
