     The impact of the research has been two-fold, informing government       education policy on MFL and helping practitioners improve the way       languages are taught in schools.
The first project was commissioned by a       previous government, which saw its conclusions as an endorsement of its       plans to make MFL compulsory in the primary school curriculum from 2011 [5.1,         5.2].
The researchers regularly communicated their findings to the       DCSF, including in a formal seminar in spring 2010 for teacher educators,       advisers and other professional leaders.
The project's advisory board       included Dr Lid King, Director of the National Languages Strategy for       England (2002-10).
Dr King has commented in some detail: "The development       of a programme for primary language learning 7-11 was a central element in       the National Languages Strategy for England [...].
The research carried       out by your team played a critical part in convincing Ministers of the       viability and importance of primary languages and in establishing the       necessary conditions for success.
In my view it had a direct impact on the       subsequent `Rose Review' of the primary curriculum in which for the first       time languages had an important place.
In particular we used your findings       to develop realistic but challenging learning outcomes in the proposed       programmes of study [...].
This review of the primary curriculum was       adopted in its entirety by the previous government and was due to be       implemented from September 2011.
Although the change of administration       delayed this process, primary languages will become statutory in 2014 and       the Longitudinal Study has been an important factor underpinning this       significant policy change".
[5.1, 5.6]     With the change of government in May 2010, however, a further major       review of the primary curriculum was commissioned, which, as Dr King       indicates, left the status of MFL unclear.
Mitchell nevertheless continued       to advise government, meeting schools minister Nick Gibb in autumn 2010.
She has made submissions to the ongoing consultations for the curriculum       review, most recently in April 2013.
She is also a member of the board of       The Languages Company, an independent lobbying group set up by Dr King to       promote MFL in education.
The most recent government proposals to make the       teaching of a single foreign language statutory throughout Key Stage 2, as       set out in the final National Curriculum documentation published in       September 2013, following drafts published throughout 2012 and 2013, are       substantially in line with the recommendations from Southampton's first       project [5.8].
Most notably, the `subject content' detailed for       languages reflects closely the findings of Southampton's research       regarding children's achievement, in terms of both grammar and language       skills.
Bernardette Holmes, immediate Past President of the Association       for Language Learning (ALL) and government adviser on the new statutory       National Curriculum, says: "Findings and recommendations from this       authoritative study continue to inform decisions around effective       pedagogy, strategic planning of the curriculum and support structures for       professional development.
In preparation for September 2014, when language       learning from the age of 7 will become statutory, ALL is setting up       primary hubs across the country to support teachers to meet the practical       challenges involved in teaching a new language.
The research report gives       us an invaluable source of reference to sharpen our understanding of the       issues involved in developing appropriate, age-related learning with       realistic outcomes.
It also draws attention to the essential conditions of       leadership, staffing and resources which must accompany successful       language learning in primary schools at local and national levels."
[5.3]     The findings from both projects were also disseminated to MFL       practitioners.
Mitchell ran sessions for trainee primary MFL teachers in       Southampton in 2009, 2010 and 2012.
She gave presentations on pedagogy, on       children's attitudes and on learning outcomes arising from these projects       at major teachers' conferences: ALL conference, March 2010 (plenary       presentation, 200 delegates); Deal/ Medway/ Kent Language Teachers       conference, June 2010 (plenary, 100 delegates); Links into Languages       conference, Cambridge, September 2010 (25 attendees); and Primary       Languages Show, London, March 2012 (30 attendees) [5.4].
The second research project featured a conference in July 2011 in       Newcastle at which the main results were presented, with Mitchell leading       on presentation of MFL pedagogy.
Attendees were 30 language teachers,       teacher trainers and other education professionals.
Evaluation forms       showed 94% felt the conference `addressed my interests' `well' or `very       well', and 100% said it was `good' or `very good'.
This was also the       occasion for the first showing of the 20-minute, professionally produced       film, In The Caf&#233;, documenting the oral teaching approach which       Southampton found to typify current good practice in primary school.
The       response to the film and the findings was very positive, with an average       approval rating of 4.72 out of 5 [5.4].
In The Caf&#233; has       been distributed to teacher training institutions concerned with primary       MFL and is available from websites at Southampton and Essex.
Teacher       educator Alex Woodgate-Jones comments: "The film made the notion of       primary MFLs much more accessible and imaginable and I have had many       requests since then to make the film available so trainees can watch it in       its entirety.
I think it is an extremely effective resource to encourage       teachers to engage with primary MFLs and see how much can be achieved."
[5.5,         5.9]     Other presentations of the research and film showings were organised by       Mitchell and Myles at a University of Southampton Public Engagement Day in       September 2011, at the University of Cambridge in November 2010, a school       in County Durham in November 2011, at the Essex Language Conference for       Teachers in September 2012, at a plenary session for 160 trainee teachers       at the University of Southampton in October 2012, and at a public lecture       at the University of East Anglia in November 2012.
Similarly positive       feedback was received (e.g.
at the Essex event, 80% of respondents gave       top rating to the primary research/ film session).
There is ongoing demand       from teachers and teacher trainers for advice on foreign language teaching       to young learners (leading to upcoming events planned in York in February       2014 and Umea, Sweden in June 2014).
Mitchell and her colleagues have       continued to work with ALL to create web resources for the teaching       profession on best practice for MFL teaching in primary school.
The wider interest in the subject sparked by the research was reflected       in a report in the Times Educational Supplement of 23 February       2010: "Primary children are at the forefront of a culture shift in favour       of language learning, a three-year study has shown.
The major academic       investigation concluded that the Government's long-standing policy of       compulsory language teaching in primary schools may be helping to change a       widespread national cynicism towards learning foreign languages such as       French, German or Spanish."
[5.7] Other media coverage of the       research includes a live interview with Myles on BBC Radio Essex on 4       November 2011 and a video presentation by Myles made for the University of       Essex [5.10].
