     As a direct result of their research, Hanson and Middleton have provided       opportunities for the       scientific and literary communities to engage with one another, promoting       a deeper understanding       of how they can work together to enhance public understanding of gene       science, biomedicine, and       `who we are'.
Influencing the methods and ideas of biomedical researchers and         clinicians     In June 2012, as part of `Beyond the Gene', Hanson and Middleton       organized a workshop for 24       leading medical and biological researchers in epigenetics to exchange       ideas with a philosopher of       science, a poet, and literary scholars.
Plenary sessions covering       scientific thinking, as well as arts       and humanities perspectives, resulted in a summary report on the       implications of epigenetics for       rethinking inheritance across the fields of medicine, evolution, and       culture.
Wolf Reik, an       epigeneticist at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, said in feedback       that the workshop had led       him to consider more critically the language he uses in presenting his       research to the public [5.1].
In September 2012, 90 people attended a fully booked `Beyond the Gene'       public event at the       Linnaean Society, London, organised by Hanson and funded by the AHRC.
It       featured the novelist       Jeanette Winterson, the philosopher Evelyn Fox Keller, and the clinical       geneticist Tim Spector, and       provoked heated debate on the subject of how epigenetics calls into       question our understanding of       genetic inheritance.
The molecular biologist Marilyn Monk commented:       `Often when a field       becomes fashionable a lot of incorrect ideas are propagated by people who       do not really know the       subject.'
This opened up questions about the reliability of popular       science writing.
Feedback       following the event indicated many delegates had found the discussion both       challenging and       informative [5.1].
Hanson also took part in an experimental workshop on `Genes and       Attitudes' for approximately 35       biomedical researchers and obstetricians at the University of Bergen in       April 2013.
Hanson's       presentation drew on press reports about sperm and egg donors being urged       to reveal their       identity to biological children.
In feedback, one gynaecologist commented       that the event had       generated an increased `understanding of perspectives not thought of in       science'.
Other scientists       commented on the value of the arts in `reaching new readers' to develop       understanding of scientific       practices and advances [5.2].
Contributing to a wider public understanding of heritability     In May 2010, Hanson was invited to deliver a public lecture, `Eugenics,       Literature, and Culture', in       Auckland, New Zealand, to an audience of 150 secondary school teachers,       scientists, and       members of the general public.
Her lecture included an analysis of Jodi       Picoult's popular novel My         Sister's Keeper, which prompted a lengthy debate on the ethics of       genetic screening and the       creation of `saviour siblings' [5.3; 5.4].
Among the audience was Jacquie       Bay, Director of the       Liggins Education Network for Science, University of Auckland.
Bay said `I       received feedback from       a number of colleagues on the value of the lecture in stimulating ideas       around the teaching of       ethics.'
Bay went on to develop a secondary-school programme for students       from low socio-       economic backgrounds and minority ethnic groups in NZ, using Hanson's       analysis of My Sister's         Keeper and mapping it against a case-study of a Maori community.
To       date, 100 students have       followed the programme [5.5].
Hanson discussed her book Eugenics, Literature, and Culture in         Post-war Britain in a podcast for       the BBC History Magazine website (approximately 30,000 hits), and       on Radio 4's Making History       programme, 14 May 2013 [5.6].
Middleton authored a 9,000 word entry on       `Science and Poetry' for       the 4th edition of the Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and         Poetics (2012), a standard global       reference work for publishers and poets; 3,500 copies sold as of 1 March       2013 [5.7].
Middleton contributed to the forum `Like a Metaphor: Ongoing relations       between "poetry" and       "science"', focusing on `how poetry can serve science' and `how science       can serve poetry' in the       international online poetry magazine Jacket2 (March 2012; 554       visits as of July 2013).
Marcella       Durand, one of the 11 participating poets commented: `I agree with Peter       that all of my poems are       based in science, or ARE science' [5.8; 5.9].
In July 2012, Middleton gave a talk on Lyn Hejinian's use of science to       100 scholars, publishers,       poets, and teachers at a National Poetry Foundation event in Maine, USA.
The poet Charles       Bernstein wrote in his feedback, `Middleton's work on science and poetic       culture ... offers ways for       those of us doing art work to better understand our relation to the       public, and to develop better       ways of reaching the public' [5.9].
Hanson's continuing collaborations with colleagues in the biomedical       sciences will benefit the       public through a series of pre-show `platform' lectures and discussions       associated with the       production of A Number, Caryl Churchill's play about genetic       cloning.
This will be a significant       contribution to the Fulcrum Festival to be mounted by Nuffield Theatre,       Southampton in spring       2014.
