     The research described has had notable impacts on education, benefitting       both teachers and       students.
It has enriched cultural study, and made literary texts       accessible and enjoyable to       learners of all ages.
It has also delivered economic benefit to the       publishing industry.
McGavin's Early Modern London Theatres (EMLoT) website&#8212;a collaboration       between King's       College London; REED; Royal Holloway College, London; the Institute of       Historical Research; and       Globe Education&#8212;has been widely reported in the national press (Daily         Telegraph, Daily Express,       and Mirror newspapers).
Since its launch in February 2011, the       site has achieved global reach [ref:       Google Analytics, 30 Oct 2013] and has had over 8,000 visitors from 96       countries.
This success       led to a further grant from the Mellon Foundation for the second phase of       the project and a 5 year       grant commitment from the British Academy to enable REED to extend the       content included on the       website to the theatres and animal baiting areas on the Bankside [5.1;       5.2].
The researchers have delivered more than 40 lectures in schools and       colleges, and for the       university's TEAtime scheme for schools, as well as numerous talks at LLL       events for the general       public.
Talks held at the university are recorded as podcasts and made       freely available.
E.g.
the       `Henry V' LLL study day, held in March 2013, was attended by approximately       80 people; attendees       commented that King's talk `enabled me to approach Shakespeare's Henry         V in a new way, which       has inspired new ideas for teaching', and that King `provided new sharp       insight into the text' [5.3].
Between them, McGavin and King have delivered 8 lectures under BBC       Business Editor Robert       Peston's `Speakers for Schools' programme.
Founded in 2011, the scheme       organises free talks       with inspirational speakers at state schools.
The Head of English at       Richard Taunton College wrote       of one of King's workshops `They were really buzzing after their session       with you'; one pupil at       West Somerset College wrote `Sir [McGavin] really made me think and I       don't do that often' [5.4;       5.5].
In March 2009, May worked with poet Maggie Harris and composer Nitin       Sawhney to       organise a day of workshops at the Nuffield Theatre and the Turner Sims       Concert Hall, focusing on       the relationship between poetry and song.
Over 100 year 6 and year 7       school students attended       from the local area; teachers were impressed with the way the workshops       stimulated improvisation       and gave pupils the courage to perform in public.
Funded by the South East       Universities' Creative       Campus Initiative (CCI), the event culminated in a public talk by Sawhney,       which drew on May's       research.
The talk was attended by over 150 people, was documented in the       local press, and       featured in the CCI Cultural Olympiad bus tour [5.6].
In total, the group       has engaged with       approximately 5,000 students in 5 counties between 2008 and 2013.
Since 2010, researchers have delivered 7 CPD workshops to teachers,       covering topics from       Shakespeare to creative writing.
One of the most popular is King's       `Playing with Shakespeare'       study day (annual since 2011), run in conjunction with theatre director       Patrick Sandford of the       Nuffield, and delivered to approximately 120 teachers from Hampshire,       Dorset, and the Isle of       Wight.
One participant described King's study day as the `best training       day I've ever been on';       another requested more of the same [5.3].
King's session `Feeling       Shakespeare's Language' was       also delivered as part of the British Shakespeare Association Conference       (February 2012),       attended by 30 teachers and theatre professionals from the UK, Europe, and       the US.
In 2012, with       funding from the Higher Education Academy, the researchers founded a       teachers' network, which       currently has more than 40 members across the region.
As well as becoming       a vehicle through       which to deliver CPD, network members provide support to Southampton       undergraduates who are       helping disseminate the research through their own workshops at local       primary and secondary       schools.
Podcasts from the events are available on the project website       [5.7].
May has also given workshops to overseas university teachers and       students.
Since 2009, he has       contributed 3 keynotes and workshops to the Oxford-Perm Literature       Seminar, which typically       attracts around 100 participants from 63 universities across the former       Soviet Union [5.8].
May's       student guide, Postwar Literature: 1950 to 1990 (York Notes       Companions, Longman, 2010; RRP       &#163;11.25) has also been distributed free to all participants at the Perm       summer schools.
A 2013       review by Marina Ragachewskaya of Minsk State Linguistics University       stated that it had provided       her with essential support for her postdoctoral work.
In March 2012, May       delivered a webinar on       the musical settings of Emily Dickinson's poetry via Peripeteia, a       website for students of A-level       English; 20 students participated in the webinar, and the site and       resources have over 1,000       regular users [5.9].
Sustainability     Publishers are benefitting financially through the distribution of King's       Shakespeare: A Beginner's         Guide in paperback, Kindle, and audio editions [3.3].
In response to       May's prize-winning       monograph, Stevie Smith and Authorship, publishers Faber and Faber       decided to bring Smith's       work back into print, and commissioned him to edit a new edition of her Collected         Poems.
Faber's       poetry editor Matthew Hollis said: `I was particularly interested in       [May's] skilful account of the       publishing history.
Faber recently acquired rights in Stevie's work from       Penguin, so I invited May to       prepare a new edition of the Collected Poems that brings readers       to the poetry in the numbers that       it deserves' [5.10].
There are ongoing plans to disseminate the group's       research in a variety of       public media.
McGavin's experience of communicating research via the       internet has led to a       proposal to house the REED pre-publication data on a freely accessible       website, hosted by the       University of Southampton.
King's role as dramaturg for a planned       production of Henry V at the       Nuffield Theatre in 2015 is envisaged as a knowledge exchange opportunity,       enabling her to test       further her theories on embodiment with a professional director and       actors.
A full programme of       educational events will accompany this production.
