     The research findings have been widely disseminated through a book, a       website and numerous events, exhibitions and talks.
The work has prompted       a global audience to re-think the past and explore their own family       history.
It has influenced popular literature, contributed to television       documentaries and received extensive media coverage.
Since 2008 Curry has given around 40 talks on this research to branches       of the Historical Association [5.1], local societies and schools, reaching       a total audience of 1,500.
Feedback shows the extent to which audiences       have been captivated and inspired, with several of the 65-strong audience       at the Eden Valley Festival in 2011 going straight online to research       their family history.
[5.2].
Similarly a Henry V study day at Southampton       University in 2013 prompted attendees to question their current notions of       history and the king.
[5.3] Feedback also indicates the personal benefit       of Curry's books.
One USA reader commented in Feb. 2011: "Authors and       historians like you are so instrumental in opening doors to the past and       finding out where we all came from."
A UK reader in Nov. 2010: "I have       just returned from a short break... my companion was your book on       Agincourt.
How much I enjoyed it, so full of facts giving absolute detail       on the enormous task."
[5.4]     Several museums have benefited from this research.
Since 2001 Curry has       been involved in the creation of the Centre Historique at Azincourt which       has welcomed more than 400,000 visitors to date.
She is now a member of       the committee for its 2015 refurbishment.
In 2008 she provided soldier       case studies to facilitate the opening of Shrewsbury Battlefield       Centre.
[5.5] At the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum, in 2009 Senior Curator       Dr Rowan Watson was able to date a manuscript using Curry's research.
In       2012 Curry's expertise on Agincourt led to her appointment to the English       Heritage Battlefields Panel.
She has also been appointed co-Chair with the       Chair of Trustees of the Royal Armouries for the 600th       anniversary commemorations of Agincourt, and her input is shaping a major       2015 exhibition at the Tower of London [5.6]     The greatest impact in terms of reach has been achieved through the       online database at www.medievalsoldier.org,       which was subsequently adopted by www.forces-war-records.co.uk       to provide a larger resource for the public [5.7].
Within three months of       its launch in July 2009 the site received over 3.4 million hits from over       a quarter of a million different visitors.
Even in mid-2013, it still       often reached 3,000 hits a day, with users from 124 other countries and       across every continent.
The site is used by historians and genealogists as       well as academics and students, many of whom send messages expressing       their personal benefit from the resource.
Queries also demonstrate how the       site has stimulated people to carry out their own research.
Contributions       from amateur historians have been supported, as have those from a wide       range of enquirers, young and old.
One school pupil was especially excited       in 2012 to have Curry's help with a project for the Canadian National       History Day competition [5.4].
Curry has responded to around 30 public queries prompted by her research,       including one in June 2011 from a bridegroom who used information she       provided for his wedding speech [5.4].
Other beneficiaries have included:       the author Bernard Cornwall, who took an archer from her list in A New         History as the hero of his 2008 novel Azincourt; re-enactors       at the annual Kelmarsh Festival of History, where Curry provided the       script for an imagined archer at the siege of Harfleur (2008 onwards); and       the Royal Armouries and Mus&#233;e de l'Arm&#233;e in Paris, where she provided text       for a Froissart Exhibition (2008-9) [5.6].
Reviews on Amazon.com indicate the debate her work has provoked, as does       an article published by the New York Times in October 2009 [5.8].
She has       received hate mail from the Welsh and others wedded to traditional views       on Agincourt.
An email from Australia in October 2009 objected: "The       heroic victory of the British over the French is something that cannot be       rewritten."
Her work was also included in a Pearson Key Stage 3 online       learning unit.
Year 7s were asked to "read this article in which Anne       Curry suggests that the English were not heavily outnumbered.
Now, in your       own words, write a paragraph explaining `Why the English victory at       Agincourt is a myth.'"
New South Wales senior schools also use the NYT       article in history education [5.8].
In February 2012 The Dutch Society of Anaesthesiologists &#8212; keen to learn       how to cope with disaster &#8212; chose Curry's New History as the       course text, and invited her to lecture to a training event on lessons       from military history.
In September 2011 her research was used by the       USA's National War College, Washington DC.
Her work on military       professionalism in her Osprey book on the Hundred Years' War was a core       text for the 200 participants on its international officer training       course, which she also addressed in person [5.9].
Public interest therefore has been high: the online database of soldiers       was reported by national newspapers including the Daily Mail and The Sun,       as well as BBC news online (all July 2009) [5.8].
Contributing further to       public discourse, Curry has acted as an adviser for several TV programmes.
In February 2012 the first episode of BBC4's `Bullets, Boots and Bandages'       was based on her research on the siege of Harfleur.
In response to her       input to Sky Atlantic's `The British' (2012), producer Robert Andrew       wrote, "Your expertise on Agincourt also really helped with the       development of our script and has produced a much more polished       programme."
The series spearheaded a major educational initiative aimed at       inspiring schoolchildren to explore British history.
In 2013 Curry was       consultant for episode 3 of BBC 4's `Chivalry and Betrayal: The Hundred       Years' War', which attracted 750,000 viewers.
Producer Graham Johnston       wrote that she "was instrumental in shaping the outline and script.
Her       contribution to the overall flow of the film was invaluable."
[5.10] A       transcript of her appearance on In our Time (Agincourt) was       selected for Melvyn Bragg's Companion to the series in 2009.
