     There is intense public interest in all things Tudor and Hayward's       research has actively engaged with this.
Through working with Hampton       Court Palace, Henry VIII's clothes were drawn to the attention of a number       of targeted user groups including curators, educators, and journalists as       well as local historical societies.
As a result, the impact is ongoing and       has made a distinct contribution to the public education and understanding       of Tudor history, with economic benefit for the museums and societies       identified below.
The key beneficiaires are in four main areas:     (a) Heritage     Hampton Court Palace (HCP) in October 2012 revealed to the public a new       re-creation of Henry VIII's imperial crown and the cap of maintenance worn       inside.
Hayward worked in collaboration with HCP curator, Dr Kent       Rawlinson [5.1], the interpretation manager Aileen Peirce, and costumed       interpreters in historic buildings (e.g.
Past Pleasures), on a project       which resulted in the permanent re-organization of the HCP chapel where       the crown is displayed.
This now makes the visitors engage with how the       chapel was used and how far Henry VIII's break with Rome affected royal       worship and ceremonial there.
The crown was the centrepiece of HCP's       October 2012 half-term marketing campaign and it was heavily advertised       via posters, leaflets and online publicity.
There were crown-making       activities and a live interpretation programme designed to entertain       family visitors; children participated in dancing and a play at the end of       the day when `the King' processed to the Great Hall in the crown.
By June       2013 Aileen Peirce observed that, "the crown is still going down extremely       well with visitors:" since October 2012 more than 300,000 paying visitors       had seen the crown (at &#163;17.60 per ticket) [5.2].
The video `The Making of       Henry VIII's Crown' featuring an interview with Hayward is on the HCP       website under `palace highlights' and on Youtube where it has generated       over 4,000 hits.
Smaller projects at HCP used Hayward's research into what early modern       kings (Henry VIII, Charles I, Charles II) wore to play tennis: in 2013       this was incorporated into the re-display of the real tennis court.
In       2009 she was also part of the advisory committee discussing the       representation of the `Tudor Route' (Henry VIII's half of the palace),       including the new warders' uniform modelled on the livery of Henry VIII's       yeomen of the Guard.
Costumed interpretation has become increasingly popular as a means of       making British historic houses accessible to visitors.
A further impact of       Hayward's research can be demonstrated by a request from a National Trust       volunteer at Little Morton Hall, Cheshire, who wanted advice on fabric,       colour and trimming in order to re-create the clothing worn by Tudor       gentry children.
On completion of her project, she reported the clothes       made had been "received very well.....Rich Apparel was invaluable       in my research."
[5.3]     (b) Wider cultural impact     Three examples demonstrate the wider impact of the research.
Rich         Apparel is one of a number of texts used for courses on Tudor       clothing at the School of Historical Dress in London.
Historical accuracy       is central to the tailoring skills taught at the School.
This has had an       impact on individuals ranging from passionate amateur to skilled tailor,       and the research is contributing to an on-going investigation into Tudor       cut and construction [5.4].
The novelist H. M. Castor cited Hayward's       publications as crucial in making her novel VIII (2012), aimed at       teenagers and young adults, as accurate, compelling and attractive as       possible (rated at 4.5 on Amazon); novels of this type actively seek to       encourage younger readers to explore Henry VIII's reign.
An article by       Hayward in the Revue de l'Art on the French influence on Tudor       fashion has also led to Hayward acting as a key research consultant to `Les         Vrais Tudors' (16 March-19 July 2015).
This innovative exhibition       will present English Renaissance art to a European audience and so widen       the debate about the cultural interaction between England and the       continent in the 16th century.
The exhibition is a joint       venture by the National Portrait Gallery, London, and the R&#233;union des       Mus&#233;es Nationaux &#8212; Grand Palais, Paris.
(c) Educational     The general public have further accessed the research via public talks,       web-based material and podcasts.
For example, Hayward's September 2012       talk at the National Archives, `Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn: Clothing,       Courtship and Consequences', was downloaded by 2,429 people during       its first week [5.5].
It has reached a wider, international, audience       through its inclusion on The Anne Boleyn Files website.
During the past       eight years, Hayward has given over 20 invited general papers and talks       aimed at reshaping perceptions of Henry VIII's reign for groups of between       30 and 150 members of the public, ranging from sixth formers to those who       have retired.
Different dimensions of the research appeal to specialist       groups of archaeologists, textile historians and amateur historians, as       demonstrated by talks to the Historical Association (2009, 2011), the       Small Finds Study Group (May 2008), the City of Southampton Society (Nov       2008) and the West of England Costume Society (October 2009) [5.6].
The       impact is clear from accumulated feedback.
One attendee, a self-described       "Tudor enthusiast" commented: "It was eye opening and very informative and       [we] came away knowing a lot more than we did."
[5.3].
In July 2013       Hayward took part in the first Google-Art talk organised by the Royal       Collection (The Queen's Gallery, Buckingham Palace).
Focusing on The         Man in Red, this event formed part of the outreach for the Royal       Collection's exhibition In Fine Style (2013).
The Royal Collection       deemed it highly successful since 250 people engaged live with the       discussion, and it can be accessed on-line.
It has appealed to all those       with an interest in art and dress history, the feedback revealing that it       attracted an audience from across Europe.
(d) Media     As a direct result of her research [5.7], Hayward has been actively       sought as a contributor to popular television and radio programmes.
These       include a 2008 Canadian documentary made to coincide with the start of the       TV drama-series The Tudors; a 2009 BBC Radio 4 programme on Henry       VIII, the first in a series Men in Fashion presented by Robert       Llewellyn Bowen; and a programme specially commissioned in 2009 for French       television, part of a series called Secrets of History &#8212; Henri VIII:         un amor de tyran [5.8].
Hayward's appearance on Woman's Hour       (Radio 4) after the publication of Dress at the Court of King Henry         VIII is permanently available on the BBC Radio 4 website.
As       recently as 2010, Hayward received a query from a millinery student at       Kensington and Chelsea College, who, having heard the broadcast, e-mailed       that "History was never my favourite subject but ...
I found the project       fascinating and have been inspired to explore the subject further" [5.3].
