     The University of Southampton's research was instrumental in bringing       arts television to the forefront of popular discussion in the UK and the       USA, reaching a wide demographic of audiences via a series of successful       public events and raising over &#163;20K for the National Gallery and the       British Film Institute.The findings helped to shape policy formation at       leading arts institutes, directly impacting on the way they presented arts       programmes and reflected upon programmes of the past.
Marking the 40th anniversaries of Civilisation and Ways of         Seeing, the research was disseminated at 28 public events, attended       by 4,695 people, at the British Film Institute (BFI) and the National       Gallery (NG) in London, at the University of York, and the National       Gallery of Art (NGA) in Washington DC.
(a) A symposium for broadcasters     `After Civilisation: The Past, Present and Future of Art on TV' (50       attendees), Institute for the Public Understanding of the Past (IPUP),       University of York, 27 May 2009 (roundtable discussion including BBC4       commissioner Janet Younghusband)     (b) Events for the general public            `Celebrating Civilisation' (200 attendees; free event)         NGA, Washington DC, 17-18 October 2009       `Back to Civilisation' study day (330 tickets sold, making         over &#163;8,000; 2,550 attendees at free screenings)         NG, London, 21 February to 6 May 2010       `Ways of Seeing: Kenneth Clark, John Berger and the Small         Screen' (50 attendees; free event) Courtauld Institute of Art, London,         28 February 2012       `Art and Exploitation: Ways of Seeing at 40' study day (150         tickets sold, making &#163;3,500)         NG, London, 23 May 2012       `Ways of Seeing' (275 attendees; free event)         NGA, Washington DC, 4 August 2012          (c) Two seasons of screenings for film enthusiasts            `Lord Civilisation: A Celebration of Kenneth Clark' (540 tickets sold,         making &#163;5,000) BFI, 23-26 February 2010       `Broadcasting the Arts: Ways of Seeing and John Berger' (550         tickets sold, making &#163;6,000) BFI, 3-17 April 2012          At the National Gallery of Art events, audiences comprised 20% tourists,       30% under-35 professionals, and 50% over-35 professionals (including       several ambassadors).
British National Gallery audiences mirrored these,       while at the BFI there were younger arts enthusiasts from a wide scope of       economic backgrounds.
The BFI's Television Programmer Marcus Prince       described the WOS season as "exceeding all expectations both in       terms of its tremendous audience reach, achieving a staggering average       occupancy of over 90%, and in terms of pure box office success" [5.3].
These events in the UK and USA, coupled with the research findings,       further sparked a discussion among respected public broadcasters (Simon       Schama, David Attenborough), art historians (Grizelda Pollock), producers       (Clare Beavan, John Wyver), critics (A.A.Gill) and museum curators (Nick       Penny) in York, London and Washington DC.
Within Television Studies, the Civilisation       monograph was viewed as having challenged existing narratives of arts       broadcasting.
David Attenborough hailed it as "the first of a new genre",       while Simon Schama urged the BBC to rebroadcast WOS after Civilisation.
Kevin Flanagan noted that "this nuanced reading of the series goes a long       way towards properly historicizing its importance for contemporary viewers       of differing backgrounds, geographical locations, and levels of education"       [5.4].
Extra media coverage of the public events, in March/April 2009 (for Civilisation)       and January 2012 (for WOS), ensured that the discussion was       disseminated to new audiences, including many who were not alive when the       programmes were originally broadcast.
The media included BBC TV       (Newsnight), radio (Radio 4's Today programme), print media (Guardian,       Financial Times, Sunday Times, Spectator, New Statesman), as well as blogs       and Twitter [5.1].
The events had a further impact in terms of ongoing policy formation at       the BFI, the NG and the BBC.
Anonymous feedback after the NG's WOS       study day commended its "innovative format", dubbing it "revelatory"       [5.3].
For the NG's Head of Adult Learning Gill Hart, it "presented a case       for the Gallery engaging a younger audience, including students", as well       as demonstrating "that events of this scale could work in terms of       audience participation, [something] we know we need to work on".
The BFI       had previously ignored arts television, but subsequently its Television       Programmer saw the events as "the perfect launch pad" for a new       programming strand called Broadcasting the Arts [5.3].
From 2008, the BBC       had resisted the idea of rebroadcasting Civilisation, with the       BBC4 Commissiong Editor (David Okuefuna) assuring Dr Conlin that there       would be little interest.
By 2011 however, the series was being hailed by       Mark Bell, BBC Arts Commissioning Editor, as "a treasure worth preserving,       celebrating and making available for future generations".
It was given       coverage on Newsnight and the Today programme, and finally rebroadcast       from February 2011 [5.2].
It was clear that the IPUP symposium and other events involving a BBC       contribution encouraged programme makers to rethink how they might present       the art of the past: less in terms of tortured geniuses or political       interventions, more in terms of rediscovering concepts of beauty and       civilisation.
Broadsheet reviews of the monograph and the public events       chose them as starting points for a wider discussion of aesthetic value in       contemporary art (that of Damien Hirst for instance).
As the Wall Street       Journal observed in 2009, thanks to this research project "people are       talking about civilisation again" [5.1].
