     All three pieces of Holocaust research reflect on individual experiences       in the Holocaust and, in their impact, focus individuals on their       responsibilities in the contemporary world.
Dr Gilbert's research into `Music and the Holocaust' has had a sustained       and widespread impact through digital media.
The website       holocaustmusic.ort.uk, produced in association with World ORT, makes her       research accessible and beneficial to a broad general audience.
As one of       the world's largest non-governmental educational organisations, World ORT       promotes learning and training for a global Jewish community.
ORT website       developer Sadler Johnson has described the site as "`the most substantive,       comprehensive website on this subject currently available."
[5.1]     It is used by a diverse audience, with one key group of beneficiaries       being secondary school teachers and students aged 14-18 [5.2].
Since       February 2010, it has been Google's top-ranking site for the search terms       `music' and `Holocaust', receiving an average of 14,000 unique hits per       month.
Visitors come from the USA, UK, Russia, Germany, Canada, Spain,       Ukraine, Israel, and France.
Broadening access further, the site has been       translated into Spanish and Russian (completed December 2013); and German       and French translations are pending.
Dr Gilbert is regularly contacted via       the site by musicians, filmmakers, radio producers, and events organisers       seeking advice and providing their feedback.
Most recently this has led to       her advising BBC Radio 3 producer Mark Burman on the music for a series of       documentaries on Jewish life in Poland, broadcast in July 2013.
[5.3]     Extensive feedback confirms the website has been successful in its aim of       stimulating audiences to consider music as a key medium for understanding       the responses of genocide victims, as well as inspiring teachers to       incorporate music into lessons on History, Social Studies, Language Arts,       and Citizenship.
User Bret Werb, musicologist at the Holocaust Memorial       Museum in Washington D.C., observed that "the new World ORT website Music       and the Holocaust completely supersedes our website and any other websites       on the subject."
Typical of the feedback received was one German filmmaker       who remarked: "It's great to see there are other creative and motivated       people who share their interest in the special part music played during       the Third Reich and especially the Holocaust."
[5.4]     Professor Kushner's research has been widely disseminated through museum       exhibitions, online media and talks.
The most significant outlet has been       the Ambleside-based heritage project `Another Space', for which Kushner       helped to produce an exhibition, From Ambleside to Auschwitz, as       well as a website.
[5.5] The exhibition was hugely successful in       attracting visitors, with numbers rising from 16,000 to 41,000 per annum       since it opened in 2010; as a result it has become a permanent museum       housed at the former Windermere Library [5.6].
The website has enjoyed       similar popularity, with 7,000-10,000 hits per month.
In 2012 the research was also the focus of a temporary exhibition, Windermere         Boys, hosted at the Manchester Jewish Museum and visited by more       than 5,800 people [5.7].
As major tourist destinations in northern       England, the sites at Ambleside and Manchester have taken the project to a       global audience (with visitors from across the UK, Europe, north America,       and the far east especially) as well as to regional school and adult       education audiences.
Kushner continues to advise the project team and has       delivered public talks to adult learners in Britain, Australia and South       Africa, stimulating new audiences to re-think the idea of Holocaust       survivors as passive victims.
Typical comments from schoolteachers       include: "I have invited Holocaust survivors to talk to my students &#8212; this       has helped me appreciate their stories even more."
[5.8] The venture was       runner-up in the 2010 Lottery Good Causes competition, with the director       of the Lake District Holocaust Project, Trevor Avery, confirming that       Kushner's research input has been "tremendous."
[5.6]     Dr Levene used his research to create a 30-minute film on genocides       throughout the twentieth century.
The film was the centrepiece of the       Imperial War Museum's Crimes Against Humanity exhibition, which       ran from 2001 to 2012 as a complement to the museum's Holocaust       exhibition.
The film drew upon Levene's `Connecting Threads' article as       well as his broader work on genocide over the past two decades, asking       audience to reflect on their relationship with twentieth century violence.
Hundreds of comments in the IWM visitors' books attest to the fact that       visitors were stimulated and challenged.
One commented: "This moving and       thought-provoking film should be on the National Curriculum, to show all       children the need for tolerance and world understanding."
Another       described it as "a brilliant, thought-provoking climax [which] brings all       under this roof into focus, and lends everything resonance."
The       exhibition attracted close to three million visitors.
According to the       IWM's Head of Research, the exhibition significantly extended the museum's       reach beyond its historic display on the Holocaust and confronted the       ongoing problem of genocide.
She commented: "Mark Levene's very valuable       input as one of two historical consultants creating the exhibition has had       a lasting impact."
[5.9]
