     By informing the debate concerning khat policy in the UK and elsewhere,       Carrier's research affects a wide range of beneficiaries.
Firstly, the       report for the Home Office, Khat: Social Harms and Legislation, a         Literature Review, has benefitted the UK Home Office and ACMD (UK       Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs), providing much needed context       for the question of khat policy.
Secondly, the publication of this Home       Office report has given the general public free access to material vital       to the debate.
Thirdly, by informing policy, his work will potentially       impact the lives of many, both in the UK and in East Africa.
Regarding the       former, his work highlights the need for policy makers to focus on the       wider social context in which problematic khat consumption is embedded.
Regarding East Africa, by emphasizing the importance of khat as a cash       crop in East Africa Carrier's work has ensured policy makers are aware of       the implications of UK policy for farmers and exporters in Ethiopia and       Kenya.
While the government has announced a ban on khat to be enforced in       the near future, Carrier's research and its impact on the recommendations       of the ACMD played and continue to play a major role in the debate.
On the basis of their track record of researching the substance, Carrier       and Professor David Anderson (the PI of the Khat Nexus project who       has recently moved from the African Studies Centre to a new post at the       University of Warwick) were contacted by the Home Office in 2009 with       regard to writing a review of the available literature regarding khat's       purported `social harms' and the history and impact of legislation in       European and North American countries.
The Home Office were focusing on       social harms, as medical harms connected to khat were well covered in the       existing literature.
Carrier and Anderson tendered a bid for the       literature review and were commissioned to write it: the review was       published by the Home Office in 2011[1, i].
This was the first piece of research to conduct in-depth analysis of the       history of khat prohibition in European and North American countries.
It       highlights the lack of evidence-based policy in these countries and the       mixed and contradictory nature of the evidence for social harm, as well as       the lack of attention given to the wider social problems faced by the       Somali population in the UK that are crucial in understanding the impact       of khat.
It also drew the attention of policy makers to the government's       revenue collection from the import of khat, which now amounts to over &#163;2       million annually.
This report allowed the findings of Carrier's long-term research on khat       to be placed at the heart of the khat policy debate in the UK.
The review       has been cited in other publications, has been reposted on several       websites, and its findings have even been translated into Norwegian.
Its       coverage in newspaper articles and approaches made to Carrier by       journalists suggest that it is circulating widely.
Most importantly, the       report has directly informed the recently published Advisory Council on       the Misuse of Drugs recommendations on khat[ii].
These       recommendations cite the literature review substantially and draw upon       many of its findings.
Carrier's research into khat is therefore of great       significance in informing the khat debate in the UK.
It has enabled the       ACMD to make much more informed recommendations to the Home Office.
Professor Les Iversen, the Chair of the ACMD[2], is       prepared to corroborate the strong role the literature review played in       the ACMD's recommendations, while Will Reynolds[3] (Head       of the Home Office Advisory Bodies) corroborates the research thus:     Dr Carrier and Professor Anderson provided, to the Home Office, a         report: Khat: Social harms and legislation - A literature review.
The         review was integral to the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs'         consideration of khat which was directly commissioned by the Home         Secretary.
In requesting the review the Home Secretary indicated         particular interest in better understanding the social harms of khat.
The report therefore provided policy makers, through the ACMD's         consideration of the wider evidence base in its report, with key         evidence that has supported the Government's decision making process.
The final decision, made by Ministers, will have high media profile -         irrespective of outcome.
If the decision is taken to control khat, it is         likely that there will be significant consideration and reference to the         social harms of khat and the ACMD report at Parliamentary level.
Without the literature review, policy makers would have been unaware that       much legislation against khat around the world was actually based on       little evidence, while also being ill-informed on much of the context       surrounding the khat issue in the UK.
Carrier and David Anderson also       addressed the ACMD in February 2012 and presented their findings to the       review committee, which Anderson has subsequently joined.
Furthermore,       Carrier has liaised with journalists regarding the literature review, most       recently being contacted by a BBC radio producer regarding a documentary       being made about khat.
Carrier was interviewed and quoted by Howard Swains       in an article about the current khat debate in The Independent (30th 	  June 2012)[iii].
This article was discussed in       the House of Lords, with specific remarks by Lord Avebury on 19 July 2012[iv].
A blog post by Carrier on the nature of claims that khat proceeds are       funding terrorism has also drawn much internet traffic[v].
In June 2012, Carrier was interviewed by Italian film-makers[4]       producing a film about khat[vi].
Carrier has been       recruited by the Independent Scientific Committee on Drugs onto a team of       experts monitoring the response of the UK government to the ACMD's       recommendations.
Finally, Carrier's work has had policy impact beyond the       UK, e.g.
it was cited in an Australian report on khat in the state of       Victoria, which successfully advised the state government not to ban the       substance[vii].
Following the announcement in July 2013 of the government's intention to       ban khat, Carrier published an online article for Think Africa Press       further emphasizing the need to consider the impact on East African       farmers and traders[viii].
Kenyan khat farmer       organisations are now seeking to bring a case against the British       government's decision with funding from the Kenyan government: Carrier has       been approached by the legal firm developing the case to offer advice.
Thus, the government's decision to ban the substance does not mark the end       of the debate, and Carrier's research continues to be of relevance.
Furthermore, by going against the ACMD advice, the government has sparked       a wider debate on the role of expert advice and government policy:       Carrier's research has helped facilitate debate beyond the single issue of       khat.
