     Stras's impact on cultural life and the practice of professional and       amateur musicians relies on       extensive dissemination of her research insights through performance and       its contextual       presentation in a variety of media.
Musica Secreta feature regularly on       the BBC and on local and       network classical music radio internationally, i.e.
ABC (Australia) and       WPRB (US).
Stras and       Roberts have been guests on BBC R3 and R4: In Tune [2009], The         Early Music Show       [2009/10/11/12], Woman's Hour [2010/12] [5.1].
Growing       acceptance of the model for flexible       performance practices in relation to sixteenth-century polyphony can be       demonstrated by       continued critical acclaim for Musica Secreta's and Celestial Sirens' live       and recorded       performances [5.2], and by further development of these practices       in recordings by other groups       (for example, I Fagiolini's 2011 best-selling recording of Alessandro       Striggio's Missa beatam         lucem, directed by Robert Hollingworth).
There is a strong history       of informal information exchange       between Stras and directors of other groups &#8212; including Hollingworth, for       instance, and Candace       Smith, director of the Italian ensemble Cappella Artemisia [5.3].
The awards accrued by the groups' CDs cite the contribution of research       to their quality.
Dangerous Graces received a Diapason D&#233;couverte from the European       magazine Diapason,       awarded for significant contributions to the understanding of performance       practice through       research.
In conferring an Editor's Choice on Sacred Hearts, Secret         Music, Gramophone said, `A       sense of scholarship as well as intense musicality runs through the whole:       fascinating and lovely'       [5.4].
Groups from all over the world (UK; North America; Europe; Australia)       have sought guidance from       Stras and Roberts, either directly or through the Musica Secreta website.
To facilitate this, the       Dangerous Graces project website allowed the public to download       newly edited and otherwise       unavailable scores [5.5].
Stras's female-voice editions have been       used in Tallis Scholars Summer       Schools in the USA and Australia (2009-present; c. 40 attendees at each),       and at Compline at       Winchester Cathedral on International Women's Day (2013).
New ensembles       mentored by Stras       and Roberts include Ensemble Cortabella in Ferrara, Italy (2012-);       Brighton Early Music Festival's       BREMF Live participants Galan (2010-), and Virtuosa (2011-) [5.6].
The involvement of amateur singers in research and performance is vital       to Celestial Sirens' overall       mission: a group of good amateur/ semi-professional singers with a mix of       ages from late teens to       late sixties is more representative than a professional group of a       sixteenth-century convent choir.
Since 2002, more than forty singers have participated, although there is a       regular core of around       16; there were thirty workshop participants in the Sacred Hearts       project.
These singers are       significant beneficiaries; they have expressed benefits ranging from       intellectual satisfaction and       musical stimulation, to positive feelings related to community and       personal wellbeing.
Testimonies       include: `Laurie considers things like temperament and pronunciation from       a historical point of view       rather than focusing only on "making a nice sound".
We spend a lot of time       talking about the       background of the pieces, putting them in context and I feel that this       gives the music much more       purpose than simply choosing a few "nice" pieces and singing them in a       concert'; `I get a rare       opportunity to make stunning and sublime music with a group of talented,       inspiring and, above all,       warm ladies &#8212; many of whom are now firm friends.
I suffer from chronic,       clinical depression and I       cannot overstate the importance that participating in such wonderful       projects plays in living with       this disorder' [5.7].
Celestial Sirens were voted Choir of the Day and reached the National       Selection stage of Choir of       the Year 2012.
Although amateurs, they performed in elite venues, such as       the Royal Festival Hall       (2009) and Latitude Festival (2011).
Some members also used their       experiences with Celestial       Sirens to form new female voice choirs: Cantilena in Horsham and the St       Pancras Schola in Lewes       both now perform repertoire from Stras's research.
The choir has also       provided a platform for       young professionals to develop solo and small ensemble experience,       enhancing their resum&#233;s.     Creative collaboration with non-musical practitioners is another crucial       route for Stras's impact on       cultural life and artistic practice.
Stras's collaboration with Dunant on       Sacred Hearts (2007-12)       developed into 18 months of providing historical and musical source       material, background for       plotlines and characters, translation, critical reading of drafts and       final proofreading.
In turn, this led       to further research, collaboration and mutual outputs.
The live       performances brought Musica       Secreta and Celestial Sirens together with Niamh Cusack, Claire Cox and       Deborah Findlay       (actors) and Nicholas Renton (director); it gave Irish actress Molly Lynch       her UK debut at Latitude.
It was a co-devised script, with the music an integral component.
As       Dunant says: `The result of       the most creative partnership.
Writer and singers, words and music: a       collaboration of women       worthy of a good convent'.
[5.8]     The recording's inclusion in a work of mass-market fiction has brought       Stras's research to a public       well beyond the usual audience for early music: one Amazon reviewer said,       `Selected by my book       club, it was a good read: well researched, moving and insightful of       monastic life, drove a good       pace and was very appropriate to have the matching CD playing on my iPod'.
Sacred Hearts was       serialised on BBC R4 (2009), was voted Best Book by Channel 4's Book Club       (2010) and was       shortlisted for the Walter Scott Prize (2010).
The Sacred Hearts       project generated international       broadcast and print coverage [5.9]: BBC R3/4, CBC (Canada), ABC       (Australia), NPR (USA), RTE       (Ireland), with CD reviews including Classic FM, Gramophone,       the Observer; there was also       widespread coverage across the blogosphere.
A blogger in Manchester said       after the performance       in the Cathedral: `The choir is perfect; their songs echo around the       interior, every bit as harmonious       as one would hope.
Once again, it's time for a long walk home with       music having had a significant       impact upon us.
There's something about music in a holy setting; you can't       help but be moved a       little, regardless of the genre or the circumstances'.
All 10 live       performances were to capacity       audiences, reaching in excess of 3000 members of the public.
Sacred Hearts's impact is ongoing, through continued sales: book       sales in publisher Virago's       territories alone have reached 175,000 copies [5.10]; CD sales,       physical and downloads, have       exceeded 5,000.
Dunant and Musica Secreta are writing a second live show       based on another of       Dunant's novels, The Company of the Courtesan.
