     Our research on domestic music making has achieved impact through the       means of performance,       recording, radio, and film, and via extensive collaboration with heritage       bodies on the conservation,       interpretation and presentation of their holdings.
Brooks's initial findings featured in 'A Guide to the Accomplishments'       for BBC Radio 3 (July 2008),       recorded at JAHM, which used Jane Austen's music books to illustrate the       dissemination patterns       of domestic sheet music [5.1].
Thorm&#228;hlen provided music research       and Norris mounted       performances for the 30-episode BBC Radio 4 'A History of Private Life'       (Sept-Nov 2009) [5.2].
Both have been rebroadcast.
Repertory and insights gained from Austen music books are key to engaging       the Austen fan       community.
Brooks and Norris collaborated on a concert for 200 delegates       to CHL's New         Directions in Austen Research conference (2009), subsequently       performed at Turner Sims,       Southampton (2010); Georgian Festival, Poole (2010); American Friends of       The Georgian Group       (2011); and Hatchlands (2012).
Norris recorded it at Hatchlands as Entertaining         Miss Austen, to       enthusiastic response from Austen fans (e.g.
Jane Austen's Regency         World (2011): `David Owen       Norris breathes new life into recently discovered manuscripts....
delightful.')
Working with Brooks's       claims about the uses of domestic sheet music albums, Norris mounted Radio       4's Jane Austen's         iPod (June 2010, recorded at JAHM) to fans' delight: 'WONDERFUL!
.
.
.
What an amazing thing to       hear!
As a Janeite, and musician myself, I really can't think of       much more exciting than making       music IN the same room where JA played every day, unless it would be from       JA's OWN music,       which this was!')
[5.3].
It was so successful that Radio 4       commissioned a spinoff 'iPod' series in       which Norris researches the musical choices of prominent historical       figures.
CHL and JAHM regularly refer Austen music queries to Brooks [5.1, 5.4],       providing the public with       fuller and more accurate information about domestic music.
Via CHL Brooks       became principal       music advisor for Optomen Television's 90-minute documentary for BBC 2, Pride         and Prejudice:         Having a Ball, broadcast May 2013 to a prime-time audience peaking       at 1.7 million; DVD release       June 2013) [5.5].
Views on iPlayer and YouTube exceed 100,000 (as       of 1 Oct 2013) and the Jane       Austen Society of North America, a non-scholarly organisation, screened       the film at their 2013       Annual Meeting for approximately 850 delegates.
Southampton research       insights were essential to       completing the film.
Brooks appears on screen explaining how music was       copied for domestic use;       she sourced the dance music from the Austen family books and collaborated       on historically       appropriate arrangements with Drabkin; Thorm&#228;hlen formed and led the dance       band (made up of       Southampton staff) with accurate instrumentation, which played for the       Regency domestic ball       reconstruction that the film is about.
Comments on social media on       Brooks's contribution included       'That was one of the many wow moments for this viewer' [5.6].
Through CHL and JAHM, Brooks       has provided expertise on Austen music to the British Council (musical       consultancy for the       Teaching English film on Pride and Prejudice); trade book authors       (Joan Strasbaugh, List Lovers         Guide to Jane Austen (2013); amateur musicians (Jane Austen Society       and other concerts in the       UK, US, Canada and Australia) and students at all levels from the US, UK,       and east Asia.
Brooks's research has improved the conservation and dissemination of       Austen music.
She       negotiated deposit of Austen private materials at CHL (2009) for public       and scholarly use, and led       the digitisation of both private and JAHM-owned Austen books (2011-13,       c.500 pieces) [5.1, 5.4].
JAHM now distributes the images to scholars and the public on demand and       we have a joint       license to mount them online in 2014, making the books' contents freely       available worldwide.
The       University of Southampton funded the work in its state-of-the-art       digitisation unit, as well as       financing pre-digitisation conservation of the heavily deteriorated       private materials.
Norris's research has helped instrument curators better understand their       holdings; he has       generated information for heritage partners about the instruments formerly       used in their spaces       and helped them to deploy this new knowledge in interpretation and       display.
The World's First         Piano Concertos and Entertaining Miss Austen featured       Hatchland pianos, and Norris recorded the       NT-Hatchlands audio guide (2008), matching domestic repertory to the       appropriate instruments.
In       2013 his research in Southampton's Wellington Papers helped English       Heritage restore       Wellington's instrument &#8212; the oldest extant English grand piano &#8212; to his       former residence at Apsley       House.
The return of the instrument was filmed and widely reported in the       press (Daily Mail,       Telegraph) and on radio (BBC Radio 4 Today, World Service)       [5.7].
Brooks's work with the National Trust and Cheshire East [5.8,5.9]       has led to significant changes in       their interpretive practice.
Tatton Park manager Caroline Schofield       distributed Brooks's M&amp;L       article to room stewards and visitors and blogged on the new insights       generated by the project.
Brooks brokered the digitisation of unique Purcell sources at Tatton       (2010), and arranged       permanent loan of an 1817 Dettmer square piano (2011), changing both house       display and events.
Brooks collaborated with Schofield for Tatton's Christmas 2011 opening       (7-11 December 2011),       preparing music from the Tatton collection for staff and students from the       Royal Northern College       of Music, who performed for 2472 visitors during the week.
Southampton and       RNCM mounted a       public masterclass on historical singing practice using the Tatton       repertory, attended by c500       visitors.
Of the 320 surveyed, 58 identified the live music as the most       enjoyable aspect ('enjoyed       authenticity of music'; '[the highlight was] real people playing real old       instruments') [5.9].
The       Tatton Park business plan for 2013-17 explicitly includes further       exploitation of our music research       findings to enhance visitor experience [5.9].
With funding from Tatton Park Trust and the AHRC, Brooks produced four       short films on domestic       music for Tatton's Heritage Lottery 'Hidden Histories' project, aimed at       bringing to life the activities       of former residents [5.10].
Completed July 2013, the films are now       used on tablet devices by       visitors to the house and streamed through the Tatton Park website and       YouTube.
The films are       designed to be useable at other properties of the same vintage, and have       been distributed through       the National Trust to curators and visitor experience consultants       nationwide.
Brooks's research featured in the 2012 Tatton Park Biennial (12 May-30       September 2012, 280,000       visitors; 37,680 to the Music Room), generating the first musical works       for this international       contemporary art event.
Brooks collaborated with filmmaker Aura Satz and       composer Larry Goves       on Sound Ornaments in the Music Room (SOMR), an       installation responding to Tatton's       architecture and the instruments and scores of former residents [5.11].
Brooks supplied music,       images and historical information, and mounted performances that produced       raw digital and sound       material for the work.
Brooks's work created impact for Tatton staff and       Biennial visitors as well as       the artists: SOMR's relationship with Southampton research was       explained in 'Interpreting the       Archives', an exhibition of the original musical materials with       descriptive text by Schofield and       Tatton volunteers, and SOMR featured in the family learning pack       distributed to visitors.
Reviews       in international art media singled out the piece: Creative Times       called it a 'moment to savour' and       The Lady praised its close engagement with the house's history.
Brooks curated the 2012       Biennial's concluding event (29/09/12), a live installation for which she       selected the music from       Tatton's collection and supplied raw materials for two further newly       commissioned works, a       collaboration between Aura Satz and Southampton staff member Jane Chapman       and a work by       Leo Grant, which were premiered during the event.
The audience of 70       included music lovers who       had not previously visited Tatton, art enthusiasts and heritage tourists.
Written feedback included:       'A vibrant and colourful addition to the Biennial!
It is a real pleasure       to hear the instruments played       in this fantastic setting.
More concerts would be much appreciated!'
'I       really enjoyed listening to old       and new compositions, especially in these different acoustics.
It created       a completely different       atmosphere, unusual to most concert spaces' [5.9].
Southampton's music research has engendered a significant shift in       attitude among heritage       partners, representing an important contribution to the &#163;26 billion pa the       sector brings to the UK       economy.
The National Trust's Head Librarian Mark Purcell wrote, 'We are       all guilty of deluding       ourselves that the Trust knows more about its properties than it really       does, but it is striking how       little attention we had given to the history of music and music-making in       them until recently',       pointing to Southampton initiatives as an exciting new way of bringing       National Trust soundscapes       to life [5.12].
In 2012 Brooks and PGRs showcased Southampton's       work at the NT national plenary       for 150 senior heritage managers.
Unsolicited email reactions include       'What a triumph the       performance at Blickling was &#8212; all my colleagues were abuzz about it       afterwards!'
(James       Rothwell, regional curator); 'Well-researched musical performances are       exactly what we have been       lacking in Trust spaces for as long as I can remember!'
(Ylva Dahnsjo,       regional conservator); 'The       performances were a revelation' (Katy Lithgow, national head conservator)       [5.13].
Subsequently       we have secured further joint funding for musical research at the NT's       Mottisfont (2 AHRC awards       2013-16); we are collaborating with JAHM on music facsimiles for sale in       their shop; and 2013-14       sees the launch of a new research-led concert series at CHL, with the       first concert by Norris in       December 2013.
The continued enthusiasm of heritage partners for our       research confirms they       have become newly sensitive to the importance of music, both to the       history of their properties and       as a component of their current practices of interpretation and display.
