     As a direct result of Finnissy's research and the close links he has       forged with amateur and professional musicians internationally, performers       themselves, major arts organisations, and audiences have benefitted from       his creative work.
His music has had significant cultural impact by       enhancing the repertory of new concert music, enriching audience       experience and stimulating performers, critics and audiences to       commentary, dialogue and debate.
Internationally active musicians have made Finnissy's work a core part of       their repertories and professional identities, and their engagement with       his music has changed their thinking and enhanced their careers as well as       disseminating his research to a broad range of audiences.
Highly skilled       performers are attracted to Finnissy's work because they want to       participate at the cutting edge of contemporary music innovation and are       drawn to his engagement with political and social issues.
The Kreutzer       Quartet provides an excellent example of a prominent group who have made a       longstanding commitment to Finnissy's music: first violinist Peter       Sheppard Sk&#230;rved confirms, `Michael Finnissy has been central to my       development and work as a musician for the past decade and a half.
My       collaboration with this great composer has impelled me to radical       re-thinkings of structure, expression and sound' [5.1].
The       Kreutzer's recording of Finnissy's Second and Third String Quartets was       released on the NMC label in 2012 and named among the Sunday Times       Top Albums of the year [5.2].
The recording contributed to the       group's profile and to NMC's economic activity: according to figures       obtained from NMC (August 2013), 345 CDs and 1033 downloads of Music         for String Quartet (NMC D180) have been sold since the 2012 release       [5.1].
Similarly, many leading pianists have benefitted from       performing and recording Finnissy's works, including Nicolas Hodges,       Stephen Gutman, Marilyn Nonken and Ian Pace, who recorded The History         of Photography in Sound (5-6 CDs) for release on the Metier/Divine       Art label in 2013 [5.3].
Major public performances of Finnissy's post-1999 music have extended the       reach of his work to varied international audiences and underpinned the       professional practice and economic and cultural activity of arts       organisations and venues.
Since 2008 Finnissy has been featured composer       at many international music festivals, for example Borealis       Festival in Norway and Finland's Time of Music Festival (both       2009).
Finnissy's Molly-House headlined the Time of Music's       concert series, for which a total of more than 700,000 tickets were sold.
Other major performances of post-1999 music include Concertgebouw Bruges       (3/8/08), Muziekgebouw, Amsterdam (18/12/08), Ensemble KORE, Montr&#233;al       (April 2009, including an Emerging Composers workshop led by Finnissy),       Tanglewood Festival (2009), Spitalfields Festival (2009), Boston       University (02/2011, 11/02/2013, 3/5/3013), Wigmore Hall (21/10/12), Oslo       International Church Music Festival (March 2013) and London Ear Festival       (March 2013) [5.4].
We do not include here major performances of       pieces written before Finnissy's appointment at Southampton, but note that       his music represents a body of work whose impact is difficult to slice       neatly by chronology, and that his earlier (pre-1999) music has also had       hundreds of performances since 2008.
Important commissions since 2008 also testify to the impact of Finnissy's       creative work on performers and arts organisations who have found his       music compelling, and who wish to engage more closely with his insights.
These include Mankind (2009, London Festival of Church Music), a       stage work for mixed professional and amateur performers using accessible       notations Finnissy developed at Southampton; Ged&#228;chtnis-Hymne       (2010, a joint commission by the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival       and the New London Chamber Choir) premiered at the November Festival in       the Netherlands and broadcast on Radio 3's Hear and Now       (15/01/11); and a new vocal and two new piano works jointly commissioned       in spring 2013 by the Huddersfield and Belgium's Transit Festivals [5.4,         5.5].
Finnissy has been particularly influential in composition for amateur       musicians, bringing contemporary music to new performing constituencies       and inspiring other professionals to emulate him.
James Weeks, artistic       director of the leading vocal ensemble EXAUDI (who have performed and       recorded several premieres of Finnissy works) said: `[Finnissy] is as       interested in working with students, amateurs, churchgoers, children &#8212; in       fact any constituency that might be touched and brought together by the       activity of making music, as he is with high-flying professionals......
Hundreds, perhaps thousands of us have seen the example set by Michael       Finnissy and attempted in some way to follow his lead' [5.6].
Finnissy has been an active member of Contemporary Music for All (CoMA) &#8212;       the organisation dedicated to enabling amateur musicians to become       involved in contemporary music &#8212; since its formation in 1993.
As a teacher       at CoMA's summer school (1996-current) he has mentored in excess of 150       amateur music students &#8212; subsequently maintaining close and supportive       relationships with many of them &#8212; and Molly-House and other works       were composed with their benefit in mind.
CoMA director Chris Shurety       confirms that `(Finnissy's) steadfast belief in the contribution the       amateur musician can make to contemporary music ... has had an enduring       impact for CoMA musicians, many of whom continue to be inspired and to       directly draw on their experience with him and his exploration of       notation, social and aesthetic issues in developing their own work' [5.7].
In many cases Finnissy has engaged directly with audiences to discuss his       compositional practice, and international media coverage has brought       further consideration of his work and its significance into the arena of       public musical knowledge and debate.
For example, in a special festival       talk for Time of Music, Finnissy spoke to approximately 250       musicians and members of the public about his use of accessible musical       notation in Molly-House, calling on his audience to re-evaluate       their relationship to music and its performance [5.4].
Other       performances of Molly-House have similarly been framed to draw       attention to Finnissy's cultural critique: for example those by Ensemble       Amorpha at Handel House (4/10/11, including a talk by Finnissy) and at the       Institute of Contemporary Art (9/6/11, woven into a programme exploring       `deviancy' in classical music) [5.4].
In June 2009, 400 people       attended the sold-out premiere of Finnissy's Transgressive Gospel       at the Spitalfields Festival.
Finnissy's insights on extended duration       were then further disseminated through reviews in the Guardian       (17/6/09) and the Daily Telegraph (16/6/09) and through the full       performance and an interview with Finnissy broadcast on Hear and Now (BBC       Radio 3, 22/8/09) [5.8].
The Guardian review claimed:       `It's a rich mix, bound by his take on modernism, highlighted in some       frenetically tangy instrumental writing, beautiful lyricism, and the odd       stinging theatrical gesture', and the Telegraph awarded it five       stars.
Other examples of media coverage include a profile and links to his       music in the Guardian's `On Classical' guide (23/07/2012) and published       interviews in What Else (2010); Limburgs Dagblad (2010)       and the art magazine Trebuchet (2013) [5.9, 5.11].
Finnissy's compositional practice and his engagement with social and       political issues inspire heated debate in the musical world outside the       academy, drawing both passionate admiration and intense dislike.
Finnissy's impact on musical and cultural discourse has increased       substantially since 2008, as his work has become increasingly visible       within new media through postings on the internet of interviews about and       performances of his music.
The activity of his fans in posting recordings       (for example, multiple extracts from History of Photography in Sound       in both commercial and private recordings, mounted on a dozen different       YouTube channels) testifies to public engagement with his work beyond       `official' music criticism in traditional media.
Some of these videos have       been viewed over 30,000 times and they often spark animated discussion in       the `comments' sections: interlocutors express a gamut of reactions from       admiration (`No composer I've encountered has made me think so much'       `Finnissy is the UNIVERSE!!!')
to dismissal (`This isn't music'), and       there are several lengthy discussions about his music's notation, meaning       and worth [5.10].
Social media comments support the evaluation of       Finnissy's cultural impact offered by Tom Service in the Guardian's       A Guide to Contemporary Classical Music (2012): `Few composers face       up to the cultural, creative, and political responsibilities of the       freight of musical history as sensitively as Finnissy does &#8212; and few       composers working today have managed to connect contemporary music's       expressive power as convincingly with its critical, intellectual       potential' [5.11].
