     The University of Sunderland led a strong dynamic and influential cross       sector partnership on a European Social Fund project addressing the       challenges that demographic change poses in the North East of England.
The       project had a clear impact in the region with the development of       innovative ways of influencing and addressing the employment and skills       dimension of the over 50s and European migrants, including Erasmus       students.
A total of 473 participants engaged in the project, 60% of these       were over 50 years old and 30% from ethnic minorities.
(UoS 2012c), p 2).
The project has resulted in lasting change in the region.
It made a       difference, for example, in the way Durham County Council addresses       employability challenges of over 50s (DCC 2012 p8).
Lessons have been       shared with other regions where mobility and migration are also important       (UoS 2012b).
The Changing People project focused on five Strategic priorities: first,       to identify effective methods for re-engaging older workers, second to       develop and deliver innovative ways of training older workers and prolong       their working lives, third to help employers to change workplace cultures       and provide flexibility for older workers, fourth to explore methods by       which older workers could be used to promote entrepreneurship and fifth to       develop and pilot innovative ways of integrating migrant workers into the       workforce to address employers' skills needs.
As well as acting as a       project lead partner the University of Sunderland coordinated Work Package       five on migration and integration.
The package considered how migration is       affecting the North East and identified opportunities for harnessing the       benefits from inward European migration     As part of Work Package five, research was undertaken into the work,       leisure and travel experiences of Polish migrants in the North East of       England, a community with 25.000 members (UoS &amp; NEMP 2012, p9).
The       research developed two key ideas of Kevin Hannam's mobilities paradigm:       the interrelation of different forms of mobility and the differential       power geometries underpinning mobilities.
The research identified a number       of barriers which affected the employability and the quality of life of       polish migrants, including the recognition of qualifications (UoS &amp;       NEMP 2012, p54).
One of the key conclusions of the research was the need       for a web based centralised resource of information, which was identified       as a key demand of the community.
In response to these findings the "W" project was piloted       in Spring 2011 (UoS &amp; NEMP 2012).
The project created an accessible       online database storing relevant websites migrants may need.
By clicking       the W icon in a website, a new window opened that provided the user with a       vast array of information relating to the North East.
The W project was       piloted on www.nemp.org.uk, the       North East migration partnership and www.2b.nepco.org.uk,       the North East polish community organisation (1).
Between July and       September 2011 the W searching mechanism was evaluated by means of a short       online questionnaire.
79% of the respondents considered the database       either useful or very useful.
Participants were also given the opportunity       to suggest improvements.
They include better information on housing, Local       Authorities and the 3rd Sector and the inclusion of new       organisations (UoS &amp; NEMP 2012, p61-3).
The W searching mechanism has       subsequently been improved and is now ready to be rolled out.
Retaining skilled migrants may provide a viable proposition for promoting       economic growth.
As part of work package five, various innovations were       proposed for integrating European graduates that have studied in the North       East.
A mobile phone application was developed named EmployME       (UoS 2012a) (2).
The application was a pilot project designed for current       and recent graduates to help them obtain employment.
It was developed in       summer 2011 by the web development team at the University of Sunderland.
The app was greatly improved following a four months testing period.
It       consisted of three main elements, career opportunities and development,       employability advice and networking.
The application was positively       evaluated through a series of focus groups and workshops involving       students and employers (UoS 2012a, p15-21).
Much of the project activity was concentrated on bringing together the       relevant stakeholders, developing a shared understanding of future       directions and identifying a package of interventions that could be       mainstreamed.
Successful outcomes were presented at national and       international events so that lessons could be shared (UoS 2012b).
The list       of presentations include the European Employment forum (UoS &amp;NEMP       2011) and the launch of the million + report "Research that Matters" at a       Parliamentary reception for MPs and Peers (3).
A second project has been       developed "Mobility and Employability Research for Generation Erasmus"       (MERGE) that looks effects of the Erasmus program on mobility and       employability.
