     Our impact is not about a linear thread between outputs and outcomes, but       an iterative and cumulative influence on ways of recognising agency for       change, the importance of community participation and voice in decision       making and community resilience against external provocations.
ICPS       research has combined with the PPC's innovative knowledge exchange and       peace-building practices, thus enhancing impact.
The partnerships we have       built with formal and informal community organisations and individual       activists (e.g.
Schools Linking Network, Tenants Federation, All Keighley       Communities Together, Diversity Exchange, Manningham Sports Centre       Coaching Group; Democratise the Mosque Group) statutory bodies (eg Police,       Youth Service); Council Officers and others, have generated relationships       which have facilitated receptivity to our research messages and new       thinking and practice amongst these actors around community participation       and responses to threats of urban conflict.
Building Community Voice     Working with community researchers has enabled activists and residents in       communities not only to gain new skills but to be heard by decision makers       (a).
The importance of this message was recognised by JRF which       commissioned a local playwright to write and direct a play from the       research (b).
This was performed three times in Bradford in 2010 to local       residents and policy makers followed by discussion on stage between them,       and once in Birmingham in 2011 as JRF rolled out work on `white estates'.
A long term partnership was formed from this research with activists from       Braithwaite Estate trying to reactivate the District Tenants Federation.
Our AHRC funded research on Power in Community was used by the latter to       stimulate discussion on power, and in July 2013 the theme of power in       community was the focus of their reactivation conference for which       Professor Pearce was the keynote speaker.
The leading activist in this       effort is now a member of the Community University Council and two other       housing activists are participants in the Community University.
This work       on community voice fed into the regional Yorkshire and Humber Empowerment       Partnership,a network bringing together around 50 community groups, to a       role of `reflecting back' on community presentations to a regional       Empowerment Commission in 2008 and to an invitation to write the forward       to the collected essays on the Partnership's work (d).
Thinkspace and the Community University: Fostering New Learning and         Practice     The ICPS and PPC have worked together on knowledge exchange spaces for       many years (11 `Thinkspaces' held between 2009 and 2013) where academics       and practitioners share thinking and practice about dialogue,       participation and peace-building, underpinned by the REAP approach to       University-Community Engagement (c) and commissioned research on dialogue       (d, e).
Interviews with Schools Linking Network (an innovative project to       connect Bradford's `segregated' schools, now rolled out nationally which       supports young people, schools and local authorities in exploring       identity, diversity and equality in communities) and Council Officers       evidence this impact (d).
The philosophy and methodology of co-producing       knowledge encourages partnerships; for instance it brought 16 community       participants in the Power in Community Project to a feedback session in       February 2012.
The idea of the Community University was born there; a       successful partnership around a co-designed proposal led to ESRC/JRF       funding and Comm-Uni-ty was launched with a Kickstarter Day in July 2013,       bringing community activists from `white' estates, the inner city Muslim       communities, and more professional backgrounds together with academics to       co-construct a space for learning about power and participation (f).
Rarely does such a mix of Bradford citizens work together on new learning.
The idea of building a `Community University' has potential significance       beyond Bradford; activists, academics and policy thinkers outside the       District have been invited to act as friends and associates to facilitate       this wider impact.
Addressing Urban Conflict, Building Peace and Resilience: Responses to         the EDL Protests in Bradford District (2010, 2012 and 2013)     In 2010 the PPC undertook a series of peace-building interventions when       Bradford faced the English Defence League, which included the largest       policing operation in a city since WWII.
This drew on learning from the       2001 riots research (b), and built on long term work with the Bradford       police including an exchange programme with the community police in       Medellin, Latin America (2002-2006) (g,h).The PPC participated in over 20       discussions between activists, the Council and Police which led to a       successful channel of communications on the day and a series of practical       agreements.
The PPC also negotiated the use of `street mediators'.
The PPC       recruited, informally trained and facilitated the `Stop It Kicking Off       Network.
This led to the request to the ICPS to evaluate Bradford's       response.
A feedback session of the draft report brought together over 40       people at all levels of activism and policy making in the District       (including the Chief Executive) in December 2011.
The value of the report       was formally recognised by the police (h) and the ICPS/PPC can claim that       they have helped change the culture of policing potential unrest in       Bradford, securing institutional support for grassroots peacekeeping and       encouraging inner city youths to see themselves as part of resilience       efforts.
The PPC disseminated the evaluation research via Thinkspace in a       workshop attended by 20 people, further enhancing the impact on       practitioner thinking.
The report secured acceptance of street mediators       with real influence, leading to the PPC's `Stop it Kicking Off Model'       being used in a regional EDL demonstration in Keighley in 2012 and in       Bradford 2013.
Council Officers recognised the report's role in `cascading       learning' (e).
The research has national significance, evidenced by       requests from the CEO of Croydon Council to share the report with senior       Council and police officers (i), and the invitation to the PPC officer to       be a Director of a national consortia of Far Right specialists, known as       Concilio.
