     Cochrane's contribution to public knowledge of the importance of the       Birmingham Repertory Theatre dates back as far as the 1980s.
(Her doctoral       research initiated the move of the theatre's archive to Birmingham Central       Library, where it has been conserved and made publicly accessible.
Throughout the 1990s she led annual public day schools as part of       Birmingham's annual city-wide Towards the Millennium Festival.
Core elements of her published histories of the Rep featured in season       programmes from 1994-9 and, most recently, were included in programmes       launching the centenary celebrations).
When the Rep closed in 2011 for a       multi-million pound redevelopment as part of Birmingham's new Central       Library, Cochrane provided a century-long time-line for display on       hoardings around the building.
Since 2008, she has regularly given invited       talks about the Rep's history to locally-based groups such as the       Birmingham National Trust Association, Central Birmingham Soroptimist       International Club, University of the Third Age, the Shakespeare Club of       Stratford-upon-Avon and to the Friends of Dymock Poets Society.
The       theatre now regularly directs requests for talks to her.
In 2011, Cochrane took part in informal consultations on how best to       develop community participation in the Rep's Rep100 celebrations       and to suggest ways in which the Rep's often radical, but historically       `top-down' contribution to British theatre could stimulate public       engagement and the interest of community volunteers.
Cochrane proposed key       individuals and events to be highlighted within the chronologies of the       four distinctive themes that shaped the Rep's successful &#163;175,000 Heritage       Lottery Fund bid to create a digital archive which would conserve the       theatre's heritage and permit wider access and understanding (www.birmingham-rep.co.uk).
Her support provided accurate historical information to REP100       project leader, Jenny Smith and exhibition curator, Gwendolen Whittaker       which proved essential to successful creation of the REP100       touring exhibition and accompanying catalogue.
Cochrane assisted Whittaker       in identifying the provenance of artefacts for exhibition and clarified       the origins of original material held by Birmingham City Museum &amp; Art       Gallery, including the context for a series of paintings by Dame Laura       Knight of Rep performances from the 1930s to 1950s.
She brokered an       invitation from the Bristol Theatre Collection for Whittaker to access the       Manders and Mitcheson archive, which contains additional artefacts.
She       then wrote brief introductions to each of the four themes illustrated in       the exhibition catalogue &#8212; `Station Street to Stratford via Malvern';       `Drama Queens'; `The Detail's in the Design'; and `Hidden Histories' &#8212; and       edited and contributed to extended captions accompanying illustrations.
From January 2013, Cochrane was credited formally as REP100's       Historical Advisor.
The exhibition launched at the Old Birmingham       Repertory theatre in February 2013 and was then mounted at Birmingham's       Grosvenor G Casino (REP100's sponsors), the Royal Shakespeare Theatre,       Malvern Library (as part of the Malvern Festival) and a further 16 local       Birmingham libraries.
To date the total number of people accessing Old       Rep-related activities is 1,504.
5000 copies of the catalogue were printed       and Cochrane continues to provide advice for the expanded exhibition to be       mounted in September 2013 in the new public space shared between the       refurbished theatre and the new Library of Birmingham.
Anticipated total       visitor numbers to the exhibition by November 2013 is estimated at 10,000.
At the request of the Rep, Cochrane took part in a BBC1 Inside Out         West Midlands feature broadcast in time for its actual 100th       birthday.
On discovery of an apparently handwritten script belonging to       Laurence Olivier dating from 1927, she was interviewed for The Times.
The two-day REP100 Weekender event held in March 2013 at the       `Old' Birmingham Repertory Theatre was designed to appeal to diverse       publics, from local people wishing to recover memories of the theatre and       its legacy to academic and non-academic theatre specialists.
Cochrane       worked closely with the project leaders to create a lively accessible       programme, acting as co-ordinating Chair throughout.
The first day focused       on the theatre's history and heritage; the second, taking Cochrane's theme       of `Drama Queens,' concentrated on women's contribution to contemporary       theatre and began with Cochrane interviewing actor and writer Meera Syal.
There then followed a series of panels: the first comprised well-known       women playwrights including Bryony Lavery and Gurpreet Kaur Bhatti; the       second brought together actor and director Dame Janet Suzman with deigner       Pamela Howard and actors Shelley King and Lorna Laidlaw; the third       comprised key executives and directors including Kate Horton, Deputy       Executive Director of the National Theatre and Vikki Heywood, former       Executive Director of the RSC.
In all, the Weekender attracted an       audience of some 165.
Rep 100 celebrations attracted extensive national media coverage       including features and/or interviews in the Daily Telegraph, The Guardian,       The Independent, The Stage, BBC News, BBC Inside Out and Whatsonstage.com.
Additionally, there has been widespread regional coverage including       coverage on BBC Midlands Today and BBC Radio WM, and in the Birmingham       Post, the Birmingham Mail, the Birmingham Post &amp; Mail, the Shropshire       Star, Edge Magazine and Birmingham Life.
