     Since we first developed the MBT model of intervention, we have actively       disseminated the research through publications, presentations and training       programmes.
As a result, thousands of clinicians are delivering       mentalisation-based therapies around the world.
The original treatment method is described in two books, with       applications of the method in different settings and with different age       groups and clinical populations described in two recent books which have       sold more than 10,000 copies to date [a].
Since 1999, Fonagy and       Bateman have given a substantial number of high profile presentations to       clinical groups.
In the period 2008-13 this amounted to 55 keynote       speeches in the UK and 154 internationally.
They have also given a number       of online presentations, which have been uploaded onto YouTube and have       received more than 20,000 hits [b].
We originally established       training courses at the Anna Freud Centre (AFC) in London.
Courses are       very popular and 50 places sell out within 40 minutes of going online.
To       cope with the huge demand we have now set up courses and training centres       across the world including at UCLA in Los Angeles, McLean Hospital in       Massachusetts, the Menninger Clinic in Houston, at the University of Oslo,       at the de Viersprong Centre in the Netherlands and at the University of       Geneva in Switzerland [c].
Since 2008, 1,703 practitioners have       been trained in basic MBT, 384 in advanced MBT and 49 in MBT skills.
369       practitioners have been trained in MBT-F, an application of the model to       work with families, and 148 in MBT-A.
159 practitioners have attended       other AFC courses including a mentalisation component [d].
Treatment of Borderline Personality Disorder     Before our research, Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) was often       regarded as untreatable and was either not treated at all or poorly       treated through Accident &amp; Emergency, inappropriate admissions to       inpatient wards, or by community team staff who often lacked the skills to       work with these patients, at great cost to the NHS (Personality         Disorder: No Longer a Diagnosis of Exclusion, NIMHE 2003).
In 2002,       a questionnaire issued to all Trusts in England providing general adult       mental health services found that only 17% of trusts provided a dedicated       personality disorder service, and there was no consensus that there was a       need to cater for this group.
Mentalisation failure is now globally acknowledged to be a key concept in       understanding therapeutic change in patients with BPD.
It is recommended       in clinical guidelines for BPD in a range of countries: in the UK it is       recommended by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence       (CG 78); in the US, by the American Psychiatric Association; in Australia       by the National Health and Medical Research Council, as well as in       guidelines in Spain, Italy and the Netherlands [e].
A large number       of trusts in the UK now offer specific MBT services for people with PD, as       do at least eight major centres internationally (Harvard, Mt Sinai, UCLA,       Texas Med Centre, University of Geneva, University of Oslo, De Viersprong       in the Netherlands, New Zealand, Mexico, Sweden, Hungary) [f].
We       asked managers of a sample of the UK teams where some staff had been       trained in MBT to complete a survey on the use of the intervention in       their teams.
The response from 22 teams (72% response rate) confirmed that       the treatment was being offered on average to 59% of patients in trained       settings with the interquartile range percentage between 50% and 72%.
MBT benefits patients not only by reducing self-harming and       self-injurious behaviour, but also by reducing the risk of iatrogenic harm       from psychotherapy.
There is also evidence to suggest that MBT achieves       changes in social functioning, increasing the chance of meaningful       employment, full time education and reducing reliance on health and social       services.
Families also benefit from the improved outcomes of their       parents and siblings after MBT [g].
The AMBIT approach: working with troubled adolescents     In 2010 we developed a mentalisation-based integrative treatment       framework for acute, intensive, home and community-based interventions for       highly troubled and socially excluded young people (Adolescent       Mentalisation-Based Integrative Treatment, or AMBIT) in which to date 750       professionals from more than 50 NHS and voluntary sector teams from across       the UK have been trained [d].
Practitioners are now using the this       approach in Edinburgh, Derry, Belfast, Plymouth, Norfolk and services in       London and the south east of England.
Evidence from services who have implemented the approach training       clinicians to focus on mentalisation in their face-to-face,       inter-professional and interagency work showed that the improvements in       practitioner skills that come with the AMBIT method make a difference to       the mental health and wellbeing of young people and their families.
For       example, the Adolescent Multi-Agency Support Service (AMASS) in Islington,       north London, followed up 120 families with adolescents on the edge of       care and found that the number of out of home placements dramatically       dropped and there were significant reductions in aggression, violence in       the home and in family relationships, as well as substantially reduced       mental health needs [h].
In the London Borough of Camden, a new `transformation team' is       developing a locality-wide approach to troubled families [i].
The       Cambridgeshire Adolescent Substance Use Service (CASUS) adopted the AMBIT       approach in 2009.
A recent assessment showed that it resulted in       reductions in substance use, improvements in psychological well-being, and       positive progress in associated peer group and familial problems [j].
We have also recently been commissioned to train 12 teams in Belfast       covering the entire Social Services Team, including inpatient care,       outreach teams and youth offending teams.
These serve the whole of Belfast       and some of the surrounding area.
Voluntary organisation MAC-UK, which       runs an anti-gang violence street-therapy youth programme, has also based       its approach on the AMBIT model [k].
In 2012, the AMBIT approach was awarded a Guardian/Virgin Media       Innovation Nation Award for Innovation in Collaboration [l].
The       citation said: "AMBIT's innovative open source treatment approach         radically improves knowledge sharing across NHS and voluntary sector         teams."
