     The LIS work has resulted in a number of impacts in terms of national       policy and also further research.
Our work found that there were a number       of key differences between the approaches in England, Scotland and Wales       in terms of the relationship between central and local authorities; the       nature and definition of local values espoused; the organising process for       investigations and complaints; and, the number of allegations and       investigations received in each jurisdiction.
In particular the report       found that in comparison to the number of local councils (including Parish       and Town Councils) that were covered by the integrity framework, the ratio       of allegations to councillors was low, and the ratio of breaches of the       code of conduct were lower still.
Crucially our work suggested, however,       that for those involved in local government the framework was highly       valued despite these low rates, and indeed it was suggested that it might       have been a sign that the system worked.
These considerations became crucial in the decision over the fate of the       local integrity framework, which was perceived by the Conservative Party       whilst in opposition, as an unnecessary cost.
Standards for England used our comparative research as one of the       foundations for the report Local Standards 2.0 &#8212; the proportionality         upgrade?
which was distributed to every local authority in England       and Wales.
(1) and was also presented to the Department of Communities and       Local Government.
Subsequently the entire local government integrity       framework for England in the Localism Act 2011 was overhauled.
Individuals have replaced local standards committees; Standards for       England has been abolished; and a new code of conduct for local government       has been instituted (2).
Through the SfE's work the Sunderland research,       therefore, had a direct impact on major changes to UK local government       policy and regulation.
The LIS work also led to a number of broader impacts, howeverm which are       still being felt today.
On the strength of its local government research,       for example, members of the Sunderland university team were asked to make       submissions to the Committee for Standards in Public Life report Standards         Matter (3).
In addition members of the team were invited to make       submissions to the Triennial review of CSPL for the Cabinet Office in 2012       (4).
The research was also the basis for further research by Michael       Macaulay on the initial impact of the Localism Act 2011, on the       local framework, which was published by Teesside University in 2012 and       was featured as a lead story in the local government magazine The         Municipal Journal (5)     The LIS has also resulted in a number of international impacts including       (a) advising Transparency International New Zealand's work on national and       local integrity (6), and (b) being employed as an international expert for       the Council of Europe in Ankara, Turkey, to develop integrity audit tools       (7).
Perhaps most tellingly the Sunderland research has been cited extensively       in Transparency International UK's most recent (October 2013) research on       local government corruption risks (8).
The TI report was mentioned 13       times in the second reading debate on Local Audit &amp; Accountability         Bill.
John McDonnell MP drew heavily from the report and Brandon       Lewis, Under Secretary of State for DCLG, acknowledged the report in the       House of Commons.
The TI report has also featured extensively in national       and international media (9).
In short, the Sunderland LIS research has been led to publications in       international academic journals and it has had a direct impact on major       legislative changes in UK local government policy.
It continues to have a       lasting impact in the UK policy arena through providing a foundation for       other major research projects such as the TI work, and also in the       continuing international reach of the research team.
The whole nature of       the integrity framework in English local government has now fundamentally       altered, and the Sunderland research has played a significant role in       these developments.
