     The impact of the underpinning research can be demonstrated in a number       of different areas: there is the impact on policy and practice; on the       media; and on further academic studies.
First, the research has had a direct impact on Transparency international       and TIUK in particular, in terms of both its future strategy and also its       future advocacy policy.
These are summarised in its policy recommendations       document (1) and in its strategy document, summarised below.
Following the       research, and as a direct result of its findings, TIUK produced a national       advocacy strategy, with four priority areas.
Perhaps more importantly, TIUK subsequently developed a "Corruption       Scorecard', which also draws directly from our research and indicated a       number of red-flag areas that were uncovered during our investigation,       including prisons, money laundering and a lack of an overall national       strategy (2).
The research remains housed in its own discrete section on the TIUK       website       (http://www.transparency.org.uk/our-work/corruption-in-the-uk)       and the reports have been downloaded over 5000 times (http://www.transparency.org.uk/our-work/publications/81-corruption-in-the-uk--overview-&amp;-policy-recommendations).
Yet the impact here is not simply on TIUK but on a much broader policy       and practice, the NIS study elicited a personal response from the Prime       Minister David Cameron (3) and has led to a number of questions being       raised in Parliament, particularly around corruption in prisons and the       recent restructuring of HM Prison's Corruption Prevention Unit (4).
The       research has also been cited and used in the Home Office's 2011 strategy       on Organised Crime (5).
In October 2013 the newly formed National Crime       Agency released its inaugural strategy to fight organised crime (CM 8715)       and the TIUK was again cited (6).
The research has already made an impact in academic circles and is cited       extensively in Nicholl's et al (2011) second edition of Corruption and         Misconduct in Public Office (7).
The work has also received major       media coverage including BBC television, The Guardian, The Telegraph and       the Wall Street Journal.
In February 2012, for example, it was included as       the subject of a commentary in The Guardian (8).
The NIS work has also resulted in a number of other national and       international impacts including advising Transparency International New       Zealand's work on national and local integrity (9); being employed as an       international expert for the Council of Europe in Ankara, developing       integrity audit audit tools (10).
In summation the research on integrity systems has had a tangible and       demonstrable impact not only on the sponsor organisation, TIUK, but also       on national and international policy, and has been used by government       departments, law enforcement agencies, and European bodies.
That the       research is still being directly cited by a newly created agency such as       the National Crime Agency, as recently, as October 2013, hopefully       establishes that the impact in ongoing and that the Sunderland work is       being utilised at the highest policy levels.
