     The research of the IIRG has increased the range of methods available for       creative industries and practitioners.
It has also extended the awareness       of historical precedents, available methods and current practice for the       glass and printmaking constituencies, organisations supporting creative       industries, and the creative glass manufacturing sector.
It has benefited       the creative industries by developing and disseminating methods of working       that can be applied to studio contexts.
Through the interface of artworks       in museum contexts, the research has created the potential to make new       forms of artwork that add to society, culture, the environment and quality       of life.
The work extends into the field of international glass art practice and       industry.
This includes masterclasses for both enthusiasts and       professional artists in art centres, public access glass studios, and       major glass suppliers including: Anla Glas (Denmark), Espace Verre       (Canada, funded by Quebec government to support creative industries), Bild       Werk, Germany, Creative Glass (Switzerland), Bullseye Glass (USA) and the       world-renowned Pilchuck Glass School.
The methods developed by members of       IIRG form the basis for printing techniques used and taught by Bullseye       Glass Company, a major manufacturer and supplier to the creative studio       glass industry.
Sarmiento went to Portland, Oregon to give a presentation       to the 250 international attendees of BECon 2009, Bullseye's biannual       conference on kiln-glass.
At that time, he also led a post-conference       workshop at Bullseye detailing methods that he has developed in print       technologies in kiln-glass.
Their `Screenprinting for Kiln Glass' workshop       formed part of their education and outreach offering.
The impact of both       his lecture and workshop continue to be felt in the glass community, and       the curriculum of his workshop is largely the foundation for a workshop       dealing with similar methods that taught at Bullseye.
Since Sarmiento's       class in 2009, Bullseye have taught the processes to 215 students in 25       classes at three Bullseye Resource Centers in Portland, Santa Fe, and the       Bay Area.
Artists' work has been expanded greatly through waterjet cutting, and the       art projects vary greatly in scope and scale.
National Glass Centre has a       commercial and special projects enterprise branch, which helps to produce       design products and artworks.
Staff use their research expertise to advise       on and fabricate bespoke projects.
These include supporting small       businesses such as Rena Holford, whose sculpture of a glass horse is on       permanent display at Bamburgh Castle (http://www.hagghillglass.co.uk/).
Charlotte Hodes, winner of the Jerwood Drawing prize, had her drawings       rendered in fused and waterjet cut glass for Kith and Kin II, an       exhibition at National Glass Centre, in 2012 which featured artists who       usually work in other areas, and who are exploring glass or ceramics as       creative materials.
The creative industries have `reached in' to use NGC facilities through       various access schemes and to benefit from the practice based research of       the academic team.
Annually over 40 artists use the IIRG workshops and       collaborate with staff, including in 2011 world leading artist Cerith Wyn       Evans.
Through collaboration with arts commissioning agencies Locus+ and       Great North Run Culture, Wyn Evans created a large-scale artwork in       collaboration with Sarmiento, using the water-jet and fused glass.
Wyn       Evans was then invited to exhibit the work, Permit yourself... , a       large scale kjinetic sculpture formed from double sided mirrors, with text       intricately cut out of each panel and assembled as a huge mobile, at the       Venice Biennale of 2011.
The impact of research and innovations of the department have gone beyond       the scope of the glass art field, reaching into other sectors including       cultural tourism.
The commissioning of new artworks in museum settings has       impacted upon public collections and the interpretation of artworks.
The       Museums concerned have worked with IIRG to develop new ways to communicate       historical, scientific or factual information from the adoption of this       technique by creative artists.
Sarmiento and colleague Inge Panneels       created Liverpool Map, a monumental sculpture commissioned for the       Museum of Liverpool, which incorporated the fusing of printed and       water-jet cut glass to create a sculptural map of Liverpool.
The work       allows for different aspects of the city to be visualised and includes the       voices of members of the general public in the work.
Panneels' waterjet       cut and fused artworks were commissioned for the visualisation of the work       of historical cartographer Mercator at the Mercator Museum, Belgium.
Glass Senior Lecturer Colin Rennie's artwork ATP Synthase in       waterjet cut glass visualizes the work of MRC scientist John Walker and       has been exhibited in Sunderland, Nobel Museum in Stockholm and the       Medical Museion in Copenhagen, Denmark.
