     Early work by the research team on the questions around assessment       standards underpinned publication of an International Education Paper       (IEP) by IFAC (E1) and the future development of International       Education Standards (IESs).
The IEP was `based entirely on the research         report (R1) prepared by Professor Lines and Professor         Gammie.
In particular, comments on issues such as validity and         reliability and the assessments of inherent validity and reliability are         drawn directly from that report, as are the tables matching assessment         methods to capabilities and competences' (E2, p8, see also       p2).
The work that was incorporated into IEP3 was published by IFAC in       2005 for dissemination to their 160 member bodies operating in 120       different countries.
The IEP therefore led to recognition within the       professional accounting bodies that there was a deficiency in standards       and led to commissioning of research by national bodies to bridge that       gap.
ICAS responded to the deficiencies highlighted in the IEP, by       commissioning research from Gammie, Hamilton and Cargill.
The subsequent report (R2) made six recommendations to ICAS       regarding their current approach to the development and assessment of       non-technical skills within their initial education programme.
These       recommendations were considered by the ICAS Qualification Board at their       meeting in March 2008 and the Education Department were further tasked       with implementing these changes.
The ICAS Qualification Board subsequently       accepted these changes at their meeting in August 2008.
Each of these       recommendations were accepted and have subsequently been addressed by ICAS       in their education design during 2008/2009.
Thus, the research has       informed the education policy of a professional accounting body.
(E3)     Further to this, the IAAER and ACCA report (R3) was one of four       reports published on the IFAC website as a resource document for       Professional Accounting Bodies to use in their quest to address       non-technical skill development in their educational programmes.
The       purpose of the development and administering of this research by the       IAAER, was to inform the International Accounting Education Standards       Board (IAESB) on specific areas of their educational guidance and       standards.
Gary L. Sundem (IAAER President) and Mark Allison (IAESB Chair)       commented on the applicability of the research in setting international       education standards (E4, E5).
In their 2008 article (R4), Gammie and Kirkham       argued that if ICAS were to pursue the school leaver initiative then the       proportion of non-graduate trainees was likely to increase with       consequential implications for the composition of the overall membership.
In time, they suggested, this may serve to alter the absolute and relative       educational profile of ICAS CAs.
These research findings were presented to the Qualification Board of ICAS       in November 2006 and again in November 2007 and the decision was       subsequently taken that the school leaver scheme was not at this       particular point in time regarded as an attractive proposition either for       students or indeed the firms (E6).
Whilst the fundamental change to       university fees introduced in 2012 once again brought the issue of school       leavers back onto the ICAS agenda, resulting in the introduction of school       leaver routes with the Big 4, the research published in 2008 underpinned       the policy decision by ICAS not to pursue the route at that particular       time.
Summary     Building on their academic outputs Gammie's team has won a number       of competitive tenders for research that is funded by significant national       and international bodies for the Accounting profession.
Their research       findings have been used by IFAC and ICAS to define best practice and       formulate policy in the areas of access to training (ICAS) and assessment       (IFAC and ICAS).
Many of these findings have gone on to inform further       academic papers in the Accounting Education field, closing the circle       between the academic and professional worlds of Accounting.
