     This case study focusses upon the impact of the practical use of the       storytelling approaches developed at Sunderland within the police force of       England and Wales.
The impact is at an individual officer, police force       and national level.
The police are currently undergoing the most radical leadership and       management reforms of the last 70 years, and a critical spotlight is       openly focused on the professional conduct and competence of its       investigators.
New questions are being asked in the training and education       of these investigators.
What does it mean to be an investigator?
What       assumptions underlie and define their professional identities and       behaviours?
And how can the dynamics of professional competence be       developed and embedded in the identities and culture of the police       service?
The model of storytelling developed at Sunderland has been used       to enable the police force to explore these issues.
The management development programme for the police was launched in 2010.
To date over 60 officers have benefitted from it, drawn from the following       forces: Northumbria, Durham, Cleveland, British Transport police (England       and Wales), Cheshire, South Wales, Essex, and the Royal Military Police.
The use of our storytelling research currently takes the form of a       storytelling workshop, using the model developed at Sunderland (Lawson et       al, 2013; Evidence 1).
First the officers are asked to remember a crucial       professional challenge that they have personally experienced in their       career as an investigator, and tell the story to the group.
The officers       are then introduced to the underpinning theoretical concepts of       professional identity, reflective practice, triple-loop learning and       storytelling as an autoethnographic research method.
In the second phase,       they are asked to retell their story using a creative technique as an       alternative form of communication, such as a drawing, painting, poetry, or       lyrics to a song.
In this abstract conceptualisation phase the officers       are asked to think through and question their original stories, promoting       a more critical understanding of their assumptions leading into, during       and after the crucial challenge, and questioning the stories and the       assumptions they support.
The storytelling is thus being used as a tool to       enable officers to explore, question, and develop their own practice.
The       officers are also beginning to use some of the techniques of storytelling       within their own work context, and in some cases as an alternative       approach to investigative interviewing.
Impact on individual officers: The impact discussed here is       on individual officers, and also has `secondary reach' i.e.
the officers       have taken on board the learning and are now using it with new audiences,       thus broadening the reach and impact of the research.
An Officer within Northumbria Police (Evidence 2) has developed (early       2013) the storytelling model a stage further and is using it in a major       road safety project for Northumbria Police involving schools in the       region.
This is a high profile arts based project which uses the model of       storytelling in a project with six schools in the North East of England.
She has secured support for the project from the national road safety       programme, BRAKE, and the Sage Gateshead.
The project involves 60       students.
The students are developing their own stories relating to road       safety, and preparing presentations of these stories to present at a       regional event, held at the Sage Gateshead, to promote road safety.
The       Officer states: "The aim of the road safety project is to challenge the       students assumptions and behaviour, through the disorientating dilemma of       their own characters life changing experience following the collision.
The       decisions made by their character influence the outcome, and ultimately       change their lives.
The intention is to give the students an insight into       how their decision making can influence their own future in high risk       situations, and to prevent them from making the same decisions as the       characters in the story."
A Detective Inspector in the North East (Evidence 3) saw the potential       for using the storytelling techniques developed by the Sunderland team       within his own work practices.
He is applying storytelling in the work he       does for the prison service in the North East (during 2012/13).
He uses       the techniques developed at Sunderland with young offenders in attendance       centres, with each playing different roles in the re-enactment of a crime       scenario.
One offender will play the role of the perpetrator, while       another plays the role of the victim.
Another young offender might play       the role of a family member of the victim.
The offenders use the       storytelling approach to relate the story of the crime, as they see it       from their own perspective.
The offenders then reflect on the stories, and       discuss how their actions impact upon others.
The Detective Inspector       states: "by the use of storytelling as a reflective practice, this has       identified to many young offenders the realisation of how their actions       can affect others and therefore their own lives."
Impact at police force level: This case study is       particularly focussed upon a professional leadership module within a       management development programme, which asks participants to reflectively       explore crucial experiences that they have found challenging in the       management of investigations.
They use storytelling as a research method       to engage and explore issues of practice and identity.
In so doing the       police officers develop a deep understanding of the practical issues of       managing and leading investigations with a view to improving current       practice.
Many of the police students express concern that the majority of       their investigative problem solving skills have been passed down from more       experienced detectives who simply attempt to replay the successful actions       of the past, without questioning the thinking strategies behind those       actions.
The exploration of alternative narratives and the use of images,       or poetry etc.
can provoke a change in habitual thought patterns and aid       the questioning and testing of assumptions.
We have collected qualitative       evidence from officers which demonstrates that the approach is resulting       in a change of practice by the individual officer and that these officers       are also influencing officers within their force to change practice.
This       work has been presented at an international conference in a joint paper       with the NPIA National Interview Adviser (Evidence 1), and has received       recent (July 2013) international interest with a Police force in New       Zealand discussing taking up the concepts in their practice, and       colleagues from the Department of Entrepreneurship Education, Universit&#228;t       Kassel, using the techniques in management development programmes       (Evidence 4).
Impact on policy: A national conference 'Contemporary       Issues within Investigative Interviewing' was held at the Sunderland       Business School in 2010 (Evidence 5).
The conference attracted delegates       from police forces travelling from all parts of England, and was led by       the NPIA National Interview Adviser (Evidence 6).
The NPIA National       Interview Adviser has collaborated with the Sunderland team to sponsor       projects which have explored known issues with the PEACE model and       investigative interviewing.
These include a research project undertaken by       a police officer which redefined national British Transport Police       training programmes on interviewing.
The officer examined the tier one       interview training within British Transport Police and reviewed the       component parts that make up the various stages of that training.
Another       officer has worked with Sunderland staff to research methods of       recognising deceit in interview.
This research has shown that interviewing       resources need to be flexible and examine physiological responses such as       micro facial expressions, body language, verbal contents, voice, and       verbal style.
This work is beginning to feed into national policy through       the Visiting Professor's national role as NPIA National Interview Adviser.
