     Development of the impact     The widespread interest in the history of Christmas and its observation       has led many agencies (including organisations such as BBC radio and       television, ITV, Channel 4, ARTE, English Heritage, The Guardian,       and Universal         Studios UK) to Connelly's research, and their reliance on it reveals       its significance as a primary point of reference.
The body of work has       resulted in a large and diverse range of requests for assistance from an       equally broad range of organisations and its impact commenced before the       start date of the current census (consultant and participant in BBC       documentaries in 2003 and 2007) and has continued.
Impact activities     Museum/Gallery collaborations     Consultancy and staff training work with the Geffrye Museum, London     The museum adopted the theme of cross-cultural influences in domestic       culture (`Stories of the World: London') for its role in the 2012 Cultural       Olympiad.
To assist with this Connelly was appointed consultant in March       2010 to advise on the Germanic influence on the English Christmas, and on       the re-cataloguing and classifying of Christmas items for the `Search the       Collections' pages of its website.
Geffrye Museum curator, Alexandra       Goddard, stated: `Mark's interest in the collections and profound       expertise in the social and economic history of that period meant that he       immediately sprang to mind as a suitable expert upon whom to call.'
[5.1]       To enhance the visitor experience to the museum's annual Christmas Past       exhibition and staff familiarity with material and context, Connelly was       engaged to provide a staff training session, which was conducted on       Wednesday 17 November 2010 in the presence of the museum's director and       twenty-seven staff.
His contribution was designed to help shape the way       museum guides enhance the visitor experience.
National Gallery, London     In December 2010 the National Gallery recorded Connelly for a podcast       on the extravagant nature of shop window dressing to promote Christmas.
Connelly was recorded at Fortnum and Mason's Piccadilly store analysing       its Christmas display and contextualising it by discussing the history of       this particular form of advertising.
Examples of broadcast media impact     ARTE         La P&#232;re No&#235;l et ses an&#265;estres, broadcast 25 December 2011     The reach of Connelly's work was revealed when he was contacted by the       Franco-German arts channel, ARTE, for expert input on a documentary       exploring the changing representation of Father Christmas.
Connelly was       interviewed for the production which was broadcast on ARTE on 25 December       2011.
The documentary explored differing European traditions and how they       developed in a colonial context.
BBC2         The Toys That Made Christmas, broadcast 25 December 2011       (repeated 27 December 2011; 22 December 2012; 26 December 2012)       Connelly was appointed as consultant to the research team and advised on       themes to be investigated as well as appearing as a `talking head'.
ITV1,         Ade's Christmas Crackers, broadcast 23 December 2012     Connelly was approached by the executive producer, Jeremy Phillips, to       advise on the planned content of the programme and act as Script       Consultant.
The programme explored the changing nature of festive       television offerings.
BBC Radio 4Extra,         4 O'Clock Show, broadcast 25 December 2012 Connelly was       commissioned to provide a short feature on the changing nature of       Christmas celebrations in Britain.
He provided an initial outline for the       producer suggesting themes for exploration.
Connelly then wrote the script       and presented it.
Popular history publications     Connelly's relationship with the BBC was further strengthened through       invitations to contribute articles on aspects of the history of Christmas       for various BBC magazines.
Connelly discussed the nature of the topics       with each editor, developed the main themes, suggested material for the       additional information boxes, as well as identifying suitable       illustrations and pieces of evidence.
In the case of `Shop till you drop',       Connelly was also recorded for a supporting podcast.
Three pieces were written (details below) based upon material collected       for the original works and fresh primary source research in order       to tailor the articles to the precise needs of each title.
`Shop till you drop: Christmas and Consumerism', BBC History Magazine,       Vol.
9, No.
12, December 2008, pp.
31-35.
`Ghosts of Christmas Past', BBC Knowledge Magazine,       November-December 2009, pp.
36-43 (BBC Worldwide Production aimed mainly       at US and Far East market).
`Season of Goodwill', BBC Who Do You Think You Are Magazine,       Issue No.
29, December 2009, pp.
68-73.
Reach     The Geffrye Museum's `Search the Collections' webpage received 80,000       page views between February 2011 and February 2012.
[5.1] The highlight of       the museum's calendar is its annual `Christmas Past' exhibition which       illustrates domestic Christmas rituals since 1600, and is responsible for       a significant spike in visitor numbers each year.
(`Media interest in the       Christmas Past exhibition was very high', Annual Report, 2011-12).
[5.2]       Visitor numbers to the exhibition: 2010, 12,392; 2011, 14,657; 2012,       13,715.
[5.3]     Broadcast media: viewing figures for The Toys That Made Christmas,       1.53 million [5.7]; Ade's Christmas Crackers, 2.6 million [5.8];       listening figures for 4 O'Clock Show, approx.
5,321 [5.9]     Magazine circulation figures: BBC History Magazine: (Circulation       July-December 2008: 64,712) [5.10]     BBC Knowledge Magazine (Far East circulation 2009: 40,000) [5.10]     BBC Who Do You Think You Are Magazine (Circulation July-December       2009: 20,226) [5.10]     Significance     Alexandra Goddard, Assistant Keeper (Interpretations and Exhibitions) at       the Geffrye Museum, stated that Connelly's `expertise has been invaluable       to us', and that the staff training session `helped considerably in       briefing new staff, and expanding and refreshing the knowledge of longer-       serving members, contributing to their continuing professional       development'.
She stated that Connelly had applied his academic knowledge       `to material culture and historic objects...in a way which enhances and       enriches the Geffrye's understanding of its collections and its ability to       communicate that to the general public.'
[5.1] Media comments on the       exhibitions from 2010-12 included: `It wouldn't be Christmas without the       Geffrye's "Christmas Past"', Time Out magazine; `For some       Londoners, visiting the annual Christmas Past exhibition at the Geffrye       Museum is as much a part of Christmas as carol singing and scoffing mince       pies', Daily Telegraph.
[5.4; 5.5] Visitor comments include: `an       absolute delight and not to be missed if you love Christmas traditions';       `Their annual Christmas past exhibition is a delight'; `Take your time,       absorb each room, read the story cards and imagine the scene as though the       people have just popped out for a moment.
It becomes rather moving       really'.
[5.6]     The `Ideas Man' blog referred to The Toys That Made Christmas as       a programme `examining how toys have influenced gift-giving and our lives       in general.
The show was made by the talented BBC team'.
[5.11] Radio         Times selected Ade's Christmas Crackers among its pick of       the day.
[5.12] Jeremy Phillips, the Executive Producer, stated that       Connelly played an `important' role in the research for the programme and       was `crucial to...the accuracy of the historical aspects of the       programme'.
He stated that Connelly provided the production team with       `insights into the mindset of the British nation and guided us through the       festive archives.
He helped us understand viewers' attitudes to Christmas,       what its origins are and why we celebrate it in the way we do.'
[5.8]     Connelly has, therefore, contributed to a range of outputs that have       enhanced understandings of a high profile aspect of modern British life to       an equally wide range of people.
