     The novel CT programmes for panic disorder and social anxiety disorder       that the Clark team developed in Oxford between 1993 and 2000 have had a       large - and increasing - impact on the treatment of these conditions in       the NHS and overseas.
The team's research has also contributed to the       development of the English clinical services through which the treatments       are delivered - the Improving Access to Psychological Therapies programme,       IAPT.
CT recommended by NICE for panic disorder and social anxiety disorder       The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has issued       guidelines on the optimal treatment of panic disorder (NICE 2011) and       social anxiety disorder (NICE 2013).
The Oxford group's CTs are a first       choice treatment option for both conditions.
In the more detailed social       anxiety disorder guidelines, Clark and Wells' CT is specifically noted as       having the best evidence for efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
CT disseminated within the NHS       The Government's IAPT programme, which started in 2008, aims to vastly       increase the availability of NICE-recommended psychological treatments for       anxiety disorders and depression by training large numbers of new       psychological therapists and employing them in specialised treatments       services, one per primary care trust (PCT).
The Oxford group's CTs for       panic disorder and social anxiety disorder treatments are included in the       national training curriculum for IAPT (high intensity) therapists and have       been taught on 21 IAPT high intensity therapy courses.
To date around       2,200 IAPT therapists have learned the treatments and are delivering them       in over 130 local services.
A further 900 IAPT therapists will be trained       in the treatments in next two years.
In addition, the treatments are often       taught on other post-graduate diploma courses in psychological therapies       (at least 1,500 therapists trained in the treatments on these courses       since 2008) and on clinical psychology courses.
Clinical service design and monitoring       The English IAPT programme is the world's largest programme for       disseminating evidence based psychological treatments.
Clark has       contributed in two major ways beyond the inclusion of the treatments which       his research produced.
First, together with Lord Layard, London School of       Economics and Political Science, Clark is responsible for the initial       idea, design and implementation of the IAPT programme itself.
Second, as       noted in Section 2, his recent research is monitoring the success of IAPT       treatments.
The research is contributing to the national quality assurance       criteria for IAPT services (see www.iapt.nhs.uk)       and has been fed back to IAPT services by the Department of Health to help       them optimise their performance.
International impacts       The outstanding results obtained with the two CTs in clinical trials have       led clinicians and health service commissioners from many countries to       request training in the treatments.
In the period from 2008, Clark and his       team have provided major workshops on the treatments in Australia, Canada,       China, Croatia, Denmark, Eire, France, Germany, Iceland, Italy, Japan,       Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the USA.
The treatments for panic       disorder and social anxiety disorder have become the cornerstone of a new       stepped care system for the treatment of these conditions that is being       rolled out on an experimental basis throughout the west coast of Norway.
Germany has also funded a major dissemination programme for the social       anxiety treatment.
To support this, Hogrefe has published a manual for       German therapists that has sold over 5,500 copies.
Colleagues in Japan       have also produced a version in Japanese.
