     We have developed PCR assays which have been adopted into clinical       practice to allow rapid diagnosis of CMV viral load, and have been used to       initiate pre-emptive therapy with anti-viral drugs.
In addition, they are       used to provide a national service for retrospective diagnosis of       congenital CMV infection.
Our work has also influenced the development of       vaccines by the pharmaceutical industry.
Development of assays and introduction into clinical practice     The underpinning research described above has resulted in a new       understanding of the natural history and pathogenesis of CMV infection,       which has been applied in multiple ways for patient benefit.
Assays were       developed for rapid quantitative diagnosis and were promptly introduced       into routine clinical practice by our group.
These assays were patented       and licensed from 2006 by the Health Protection Agency, meaning that CMV       rapid diagnosis and pre-emptive therapy are now available throughout the       UK.
Between 2008 and 2010 almost 19,000 tests were performed, generating       royalties to UCL of [text removed for publication] [a].
Our research on the usefulness of detecting CMV DNA is cited in the latest       guidelines on managing CMV post-transplantation [b].
Pre-emptive treatment in transplantation     Pre-emptive treatment is now widely used with virtually all bone marrow       transplant patients worldwide.
This reduces the risk to the bone marrow       from anti-CMV drugs [c].
In solid organ transplants, most centres       still administer prophylactic antivirals to all patients regardless of       whether they have CMV infection.
However the latest guidelines from the       USA have moved from preferring prophylaxis to equipoise, citing our recent       results demonstrating the efficacy of pre-emptive therapy [b].
Diagnosis of congenital CMV infection     Our PCR assays are used to provide a national service for retrospective       diagnosis of congenital CMV infection when children present with       sensorineural hearing loss or developmental delay, as recommended by two       sets of guidelines issued by the British Association of Audiovestibular       Physicians in 2009 [d].
Since 2008, 1,455 tests have been       performed using our method [e].
Development of CMV vaccines     Our work has stimulated investment by several pharmaceutical companies in       prototype CMV vaccines which are currently entering clinical trials.
Research at UCL has provided much of the scientific basis for its current       control by means of antiviral therapy and what we hope will be its       ultimate elimination by means of routine immunisation [f].
At a       national level, the Department of Health Joint Committee on Vaccination       and Immunisation invited vaccine manufacturers to submit evidence in 2012       about their plans for preparing CMV vaccines as part of the committee's       horizon scanning [g].
At an international level, our findings have       been presented to the two USA Federal meetings which have reviewed the       prospects for developing CMV vaccines (CDC/NIH 2000 Atlanta;       FDA/CDC/NIH/NVPO Washington DC 2012) [h].
We also provided       evidence to the Decade of Vaccines consortium which produced a Global       Vaccine Action Plan proposing that, for the future, vaccines should be       prepared against four virus infections which are currently not       vaccine-preventable.
One of these is CMV and the proposal was endorsed by       the World Health Assembly in 2012 [i].
Raising awareness of CMV: public and patient engagement     In 2012, Griffiths worked with patient support group CMV Action to       produce a summary of current UK guidelines aimed at parents of children       with congenital CMV.
This document set out key points from the guidelines       to help families to understand what tests their child will have and why [j].
Griffiths has also written a book on CMV entitled The Stealth Virus       which aimed to explain CMV to the non-specialist [k].
This book       was welcomed by CMV Action and recommended on patient websites [l].
