     The research has influenced management thinking, and has had impact in       the form of improved business and management performance.
This impact can       be demonstrated from individual, corporate, and policy perspectives.
Key       to the impact of both the individual and corporate cases is the       interlinking of business knowledge with personal transformation.
In each       of the cases presented below, qualitative data have shown that it is the       unique combination of reflective practice, tacit knowledge transfer, and       inter-professional learning, which have facilitated the individual's       transformation, and enabled the individual to extend this to transform       their organisation.
Individual: Since the introduction of       the model of transformative learning a number of individuals have gone on       to use their learning to significantly improve their business or workplace       practices.
Notable examples are offered here:     Kookaburra Ltd: Kookaburra is a food processing company based in       Peterlee.
In 2005 the shift manager, who is now Director of Operations,       embarked upon the BA Applied Management programme at the Business School,       progressing subsequently to the MSc Applied Management in 2008 (Evidence       1).
The transformational learning achieved on these programmes has allowed       him to make significant impact within his organisation.
This includes: the       introduction of change management programmes which have led to a reduction       in the running costs of the factory during the period 2009 and 2012       (Evidence 2); consultative work for market leaders in the food       manufacturing industry during the period 2010 and 2012, offering a service       that provides Kookaburra with a competitive edge, increasing the profile       of the organisation and leading to a significant increase in sales, and       winning an award in Meat Trade Journal Meat and Poultry Processing Awards       for Environmental initiative of the Year in 2011.
In his words: ""During       the last five years, through research at the university, I have       transformed my leadership skills and used them to transform some of the       business aspects of Kookaburra."
The Care People: The Care People is a social enterprise established to       provide care to children and older people.
The Chief Executive of The Care       People undertook a Professional Doctorate study during the period 2009 and       2012.
She used personal transformation, and the model of transformative       learning, to develop The Care People and her staff, resulting in a new       organisational structure, a growth in staff numbers and the winning of       three new contracts with a Local Authority in 2012 (Evidence 3).
North East Shared Services (NESSP): NESSP is a not for profit       collaborative partnership comprising of four FE (Further Education)       colleges in the North East region, with the aim of sharing common       services.
The Manager of NESSP used the model of transformative learning       in a doctoral study to create the business structure for a shared service       which is now offered as best practice for the Further Education sector       (Evidence 4).
A toolkit, based on her shared service development was       commissioned by the 157 Group, which is a consortium of 30 of the UK's       largest FE Colleges.
This toolkit was developed and delivered by the       Manager of NESSP and AK&amp;N Associates, using the model of       transformative learning as a core, during 2012/13.
The Manager of NESSP       states: "I really thought I was a well-qualified and experienced manager       until I experienced the development programme.
I had not anticipated the       intense academic rigour together with demonstrating significant impact to       my professional audience.
The programme stretched me in a way I never       dreamed possible and I now know that the work I undertake has moved up       many gears in quality!
I am presently working with Colleges in the South       West to develop a shared services joint venture company, and a College in       the South East to develop a Federation group model of Colleges/University       Technical Colleges/Academies and Private Companies, further embedding the       knowledge and experienced gained as a result of undertaking the       programme."
Corporate: The Business School has adopted the model used       for its open programmes of work-based learning to develop customised       corporate programmes for major organisations.
BT: Work-based programmes       based on the BA Applied Management model have been offered to BT from       Foundation Degree to Masters level.
64 students graduated from the       programme in the period 2008 to 2012.
Graduates of the programme have       described impacts such as improved ability to negotiate deals with       clients, better ability to prioritise, improved people management skills,       and improved information management and sharing which has helped to `win       big deals'.
Various graduates from different divisions report potential       additional income as a result of the programme from &#163;500,000 to &#163;12       million, and potential cost savings at &#163;100,000 (Evidence 5).
NHS.
The model is also being delivered through the NHS North East       Leadership Academy.
The aim is to use the research to develop high level       leadership capacity in the North East public sector.
This work is having       impact across all 14 of the region's NHS trusts and North East Strategic       Health Authority.
This link has been further strengthened by the       appointment of Maxine Craig, head of organisation development for the       South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, as a visiting professor with       the unit (Evidence 6).
The NHS are using the model to explore ways to       support NHS teams and clinicians in difficulty and improve team working.
The impact of this work to date, which has been evaluated by a qualitative       study and was presented at the British Academy of Management conference in       2013, is a developing culture of openness and insight (Evidence 7).
Policy and Strategy: Sanders reputation in the field of       work-based learning and management development led to her acting in an       advisory capacity to Government Office Southwest on funding bids for       enterprise and work-based learning, and as such has impacted upon       educational provision for businesses in the South West region.
The then       Director of Skills and Business Support at South West Regional Development       Agency states: "Cornwall is a Convergence area and hence is the       beneficiary of significant ESF funds.
The priorities for ESF spend in the       county are set out in the Framework document, and a significant proportion       of spending is allocated for Higher Education spending.
The Framework was       developed by the Regional Skills Partnership through a collaborative and       consultative process.
I was at the time Director and led the process.
A       panel was established to consider proposals for ESF funding, and it was       clear that outside expertise would be required to ensure that funding       supported development proposals that were cutting edge.
Gail Sanders was       engaged to provide critical third party expertise to help shape the       responses to bids.
The panel to which Gail was co-opted included       Government Office, DWP, SFA the SWRDA and independent members.
The       guidance and expert advice that she provided was invaluable and helped to       shape the programme commissioned guidance given to bidders."
(Evidence 8).
Sanders has also acted as specialist adviser for the Open University for       the development of overseas work-based learning programmes.
Sanders has       recently joined together with colleagues from across the HE sector with an       interest in critically reflexive approaches to research processes.
This       work has attracted the support of the HE Academy with a view to       establishing a sustainable Special Interest Group (SIG) and co-hosting a       future symposium (Evidence 9).
