     The Centre for Entrepreneurship team stimulates change in Nigerian U/G         Curriculum: an example of impact on practitioners and professional         services at an international level.
Entrepreneurship has been taught in all Nigerian universities since 2002,       but with the current approach there was still a `dearth of a critical mass       of specialists in...Entrepreneurship...to pass on the competence' within       Nigeria (E1 page iii) and so in 2011 the Hon.
Minister for       Education instigated the development of a BSc in Entrepreneurship.
Having       developed the curriculum documents for this programme, the National       Universities Commission (NUC) approached the Centre for Entrepreneurship       because of their internationally renowned expertise in entrepreneurship       research and education (E2) to deliver a week-long training       programme for 69 Nigerian academics on entrepreneurship education in May       2013.
The Entrepreneurship Teaching Programme for visiting Nigerian         Academics was coordinated by Gibbons-Wood, opened by Prof       Julius Okojie, Exceutive Secretary of the NUC, and attended by academics       from 29 of Nigeria's 48 universities, including old and new, public and       private, with representatives of all levels from front line lecturing       staff to Pro-Vice Chancellors.
Anderson, Fraser, Fulford,       Grant, Smith, and Ullah presented on aspects of       entrepreneurship research and education (E3) drawing upon previous       research work.
For example, Anderson's sessions on Day 1 (E3       p4) blended insights from his personal philosophy on entrepreneurship       education (R1, R2) and the need for a Nigerian Curriculum to       take account of the Nigerian context and not simply import UK educational       practices (R3).
The Programme also included visits to local       businesses relevant to the Nigerian economy, such as food and drink       manufacturers.
The Programme was a "train the trainer" event, where the       aim was to supply knowledge and tools for delegates to change teaching       practices and the relationship between entrepreneurship research and the       curriculum in their own institutions.
Following the Programme a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was drawn up       and signed by RGU and the National Universities Commission in Nigeria (E4)       in a bid to promote the delivery and entrenchment of entrepreneurship       education and research.
The MoU, which will be in place for three years,       aims to enable the enhancement of the teaching and research in       entrepreneurship across universities in Nigeria.
96% of delegates       confirmed that there was a specific action that they planned to take as a       result of attending the Programme and the actions listed included       intentions to train others, write for publication, engage with policy       makers and make changes within their own institutions (E5 p10).
These statements of intention are early indicators of impact on the       thinking and practices of the Nigerian Educators which can be followed up       in the next REF period.
Following the Programme, several PhD applications       and prospective research collaborations have emerged (E6).
Practising what you preach: an example of economic, commercial and         organisational impacts at the level of individual firms       Park joined PepsiCo International in January 2006 and was later       appointed R&amp;D Director Insights &amp; Information, responsible for       managing R&amp;D product testing activities for the UK Walkers Snacks and       Quaker Breakfast Cereals businesses.
By implementing the outsourcing model       developed through his research (R6), and utilising the social       networking approach advocated in his joint work with Anderson and       Jack, (R4) Park re-engineered the consumer and technical       evaluation of new food products across the entire European region saving       PepsiCo $22.5million (E7).
In 2010 Park returned to RGU to lead the Charles P Skene       Entrepreneurship programme, a post funded by the Scottish entrepreneur       Charles Skene in the hope of promoting entrepreneurship across the whole       university by teaching enterprise skills and raising awareness as part of       every U/G degree programme, rather than just those within the Business       School.
As part of this role Park set up the university's Business       Incubator Initiative, which provided additional entrepreneurship training       to students and support in setting up their own businesses.
Park       was able to close the loop, advising start-up companies on the basis of       his own research findings (R3, R5) and how they had worked       in practice in PepsiCo.
Initial incubator clients included ShirtbyHand,       Saunt &amp; Sinner and Arrows Connect (UK) Ltd (E8).
In 2011 Park       won the Scottish Institute for Enterprise Entrepreneurship Educator of the       Year award for his role in the Business Incubator.
Upskilling Scotland's SMEs: an example of impact on professional         practices at the level of the individual firm       In 2012, building on Fulford's research on the range of skills       needed by SMEs (R7) Fulford and Marcella (Aberdeen Business       School), in collaboration with the Hunter Centre for Entrepreneurship       (University of Strathclyde), won a competitive bid to design, deliver and       evaluate post-study training (Work-based Experiential Learning for       Business Development Project &#8212; WELBD) to graduates on the TalentScotland       placement programme (run by Highlands and Islands Enterprise and Scottish       Enterprise).
The project, funded jointly by the Scottish Funding Council       (&#163;552,000) and Skills Development Scotland (&#163;200,000) involves delivering       business training to graduates working in SMEs across Scotland.
Fraser       joined the Centre for Entrepreneurship in 2011 as a lecturer, with       specific responsibility for delivering business training for the       programme.
The first residential course of the WELBD project took place in December       2010 for graduates in the Highlands and Islands.
Led by Fulford,       the graduates were taught key aspects of business development, and       finished by presenting to a panel of business managers on how they would       apply their new knowledge and take their placement projects forward.
Fraser       delivered a further 24 courses across Scotland and by July 2013, 311       graduates had participated in the training and were on placement in SMEs       in a range of sectors, as well as in a variety of social enterprises.
Evaluation of the project (E9) indicated that the training       constituted a highly valuable element of the placement programme for       graduates, the businesses and for the enterprise agencies (E10).
Learning from the training directly benefitted the graduate participants       by enhancing their entrepreneurial and employability skills, but was also       channelled, through them, into their placement workplaces, thereby       contributing to the up-skilling of the workforce in the SMEs, and the       introduction of new approaches and entrepreneurial ways of thinking (E9       pp17 &amp;19).
Proposing a Corporate Mediator: an example of impact on public policy         at the UK level       In 2008, following a competitive tender process via the Association of       Business Schools, Anderson was appointed Professor of Small       Business for the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) who funded his Chair       (2008-2010) to the tune of &#163;100k per annum for 2 years .
The FSB has over       200,000 members and exists to protect and promote the interests of the       self-employed and all those who run their own business.
Anderson's       appointment came at a crucial time, when small businesses were under       threat due to the effects of the "credit crunch".
The FSB intended the       appointment to add to the existing package of support offered to small       firms during the downturn and to enable enhanced understanding of policy       makers and members of the public about the importance of small firms to       the economy and to society in general (E11).
During this       appointment, drawing on extensive experience and having already amassed a       significant body of publications on small business and rural       entrepreneurship, Anderson conducted research for the FSB in a       series of projects, a notable example being his survey of over 6000 FSB       members on the challenges that rural small businesses were facing during       the economic downturn (R4).
Anderson presented the findings       at the FSB National Conference in 2009, raising awareness of the current       difficulties in accessing finance and later published the findings in 2010       (R4).
A solution to the challenges highlighted by Anderson's       research was presented in the FSB's proposal for a "Corporate Mediator" to       solve problems and facilitate dialogue between the business and banking       communities and well as de-politicising and defusing the issue of bank       lending.
The FSB launched its Budget submission with tangible solutions to       tackling the recession, ahead of Chancellor Alistair Darling's Budget       announcement on April 22nd 2009 (E12).
The proposal cites the       findings of Anderson's survey (R4) as key evidence in       support of such a move (E12 p1).
The proposal led to the       appointment of Sir Alan Sugar by the UK government (E13).
