     Enhancing community engagement with Scotland's historic environment is       the impact achieved through initiatives pursued by Oram, Ross and Smyth       through History Tomorrow.
Community- focussed history and       archaeology projects aimed at awareness-raising and identity-building at       local levels have reunited targeted groups with their cultural heritage       and historic environments.
Delivery stemmed from projects which enhanced       inter-generational social cohesion and restored possession of communities'       own heritage to social segments previously excluded or alienated, often       through appropriation of their community past or its dismissal as       irrelevant.
One stimulus for this delivery was Historic Scotland's strategy       of providing local government planners, council archaeologists and local       community groups with evidence necessary for informed decision-making       concerning development policies in Scotland's historic burghs.
It       commissioned a team under Oram's direction to produce `Burgh Surveys' of       four historic towns.
Three of these reports have been published to date       and they have been further utilised by the respective local communities:             Historic Tain (2009), reported by the national news, and since         publication it has been extensively utilised by local communities to         underpin and develop their own research projects.
Historic Whithorn (2010).
This has been used to inform both         government and the local community to underpin current interpretations         of historic locations within the town in relation to both urban planning         and tourism.
Historic Fraserburgh (2010).
The publication of this book was         reported in the local press and its contents are now informing the         freely-available RCAHMS site record.
Another example of such processes in action is Prestongrange.
Oram was       commissioned to assess the surviving historic records and devise a       programme of projects for community volunteers.
His report informed a       successful HLF application made on behalf of the local communities by East       Lothian Council.
This stipulated that Stirling University train 25 local       volunteers to enable them to undertake their own research on Prestongrange       and its former industries.
Oral History and record-linkage projects       (Smyth) focussed on the coal mine and brick factory (both closed by 1975).
Volunteers were trained to interview surviving ex-employees whose       testimony enriched the local historical record, exposing the former       centrality of those establishments to community life.
The volunteers       actively continue to collect oral reminiscences.
Training in basic       palaeography (Ross) enabled community-based volunteers to design,       undertake, interpret and write up their own research projects.
The       volunteers delivered their findings in a booklet that traced their       training processes and how they utilised their new skills for the benefit       of their community.
Digging into the Past: 800 Years at Prestongrange       (2009 - see section 5), was funded by East Lothian Council, Historic       Scotland, and The Society of Antiquaries of Scotland and it provides an       invaluable record of what Stirling's support enabled volunteers to       achieve, underscoring the revived sense of community in an area which had       previously experienced three decades of socio-economic decline.
Furthermore, these investigations by Stirling-trained volunteers continue       to shape East Lothian community-based investigations into their own       history and landscapes in a sustainable manner.
Much of what has been       discovered and recorded by these volunteers informs current community-led       plans for museum expansion at Prestongrange and their research continues       to be used there to educate visitors and maintain local community pride in       their historic environment.
History Tomorrow's experience at Prestongrange provided a model       for the development of the OLP, a &#163;2.26m HLF collaboration with Stirling       and Clackmannanshire Councils and 20 different community groups to improve       understanding of and access to the environmental and built heritage of the       Ochils.
A Research Assistant from the University of Stirling [McAlister]       has been seconded to this project as Research &amp; Interpretation       Officer.
Smyth trained 15 volunteers in Oral History techniques.
Apart       from helping to develop this project with the two local councils, Ross       trained 20 local volunteers in researching local history and palaeographic       skills, as well researching the pre-1600 history of the OLP area.
His       report subsequently inspired local OLP volunteers to search for landscape       and material archaeological remains relating to the (lost) twelfth century       royal forest of Clackmannan.
In August 2013 the remains of a structure now       identified as a hunting lodge, together with the turf banks of a former       deer chase, were discovered on the hillside above Castle Campbell and       subsequently excavated by 50 OLP community volunteers under the       supervision of a National Trust for Scotland archaeologist.
In addition,       Ross's report on the historic environment of the OLP area has now fed into       an open-access virtual landscape and historical reconstruction of       important cultural sites within the OLP area, including structures now       lost.
This project, however, has a much wider remit to engage different       types of local communities, ranging across society from primary and       secondary school pupils (with materials provided for teachers) to the       unemployed, and the OLP has also acted as a vehicle to widen wilderness       access (by constructing new or improving existing walking and cycling       trails in the Hillfoot Glens), raising local awareness about the historic       environment and Nature, and by removing foreign invasive species of       plants.
A final impact of this project has been the recording and       conservation of hitherto vandalised grave markers on abandoned church       sites in the OLP area by local volunteers.
This has actively restored a       sense of community pride in these sites and encouraged new genealogical       studies.
Vandalism of these sites has ceased since the OLP volunteers       began to manage and conserve them.
A final example of our impact upon different communities is our report on       Hermitage Castle in Liddesdale (Oram).
Here, initial community-funded       research commissioned by HAG resulted in Hermitage Castle: A Report on         Its History and Cultural Heritage Significance.
HAG used web-       dissemination of this document to enhance awareness of the monument's       cultural significance locally, nationally and internationally, which in       turn informed community participation and external intervention in local       planning debates concerning wind farm developments locally; indirectly, it       has actively enabled them to shape future development proposals affecting       their historic environment.
Clearly, the publicised successes of such       community-based historic environment projects have established History         Tomorrow and the University of Stirling as a key provider of       publicly-accessible community-oriented research reports and volunteer       training.
