     Worldwide impact of RPS can be measured initially through web       usage.
To date, it has received over 2.07 million pageviews, representing       250,567 visits from 150,307 unique users, averaging 80 visits per day.
63%       of these are UK based (40% of this from England); 13.4% USA, 5.8%       Australia, 4% Canada, 1.47% New Zealand, 1.51% Germany, 1.17% France, 0.7%       Ireland, Netherlands, Italy, Russia and Spain.
Whilst a core of users are       scholars/students of history, law, economics, literature and environment,       direct queries to the editorial team 2008-13 [c.1,200 to date] confirm       c.40-45% of users are otherwise private individuals and voluntary       societies, particularly those conducting their own research into family       and local history who are able to obtain (and, significantly, in turn       correct and deepen) the project's records relevant to genealogy,       biography, land ownership, place-names, topography and a wide variety of       socio-economic themes.
A further c.15-20% of users are practitioners       within local/institutional services, professional bodies and private       companies.
This includes individual teachers and librarians seeking       pupil/reader materials; law firms investigating precedent and individual       cases; media outlets profiling historical events or individual themes       (e.g.
the anniversary of Union or Bannockburn, fishing rights, extreme       weather, alcohol prices), including the BBC (and its History       magazine), national newspapers and radio; or individual archives and       heritage groups seeking to contextualise their own holdings/site (e.g.
Dundee City Archives, Shetland Museum &amp; Archives).
Regular press       releases by Mann and Gillian MacIntosh (RPS Project Manager to       2010, St Andrews) regarding topical RPS content and publicised RPS       database updates (often prompted by corrections submitted by the public)       maintain dissemination.
RPS was publicly launched (May 2008) before former First Ministers       Henry Mcleish and Jack McConnell at the Scottish Parliament and       cross-party commended by MSPs' to the nation.
The database is in regular       use by legal and policy practitioners.
The Scottish Law Commission (SLC),       which advises civil servants, Edinburgh MSPs, Westminster MPs and Brussels       MEPs, has engaged the project team to assist in confirming repealed or       still-active pre-1707 statutes for consultation in framing new       legislation.
In 2008, for example, it collaborated with SLC to advise the       Executive and its agencies that a Scottish Parliament Act of 2002 had       incorrectly assumed that the 1621 Bankruptcy Act remained in law: this       helped frame a revised Bankruptcy and Diligence Act.
In 2010 RPS       also facilitated intervention (and discussion of jurisdictional       competence) in support of Scottish National Heritage (querying Forestry       Commission policy), by confirming the unnoticed Westminster repeal of the       Scottish parliament's 1695 Soil Preservation Act as a crucial factor in       efforts to develop Sand Dune conservation.
Similarly, RPS was       recently cited as contextual historic background and precedent in a US       Supreme Court decision (Florida v Jardines 26 March 2013)       in reference to justified probable cause and search in a drug trafficking       arrest.
Further queries about the detail, application and/or repeal of       historic acts (or about more general historic events, places and people)       have come from the British Institute of Electrical Engineers, the Scottish       Legal Action Group and the BBC, most either informing the public or       professional policy deliberations (with several clarifying issues raised       by significant legislation of the new Scottish Parliament, e.g.
The       Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc.
(Scotland) Act 2000).
RPS continues its wider cultural impact as an invaluable resource       for private researchers, family history societies, archivists/librarians,       community heritage projects and school teachers.
The high level of       inquiries from such communities encouraged MacIntosh and Mann to develop       an on-line support gateway within RPS outlining `Ideas for Further       Research' (2009) aimed at family historians.
Moreover, a       legacy-partnership has been agreed with the National Records of Scotland,       Edinburgh, to migrate and maintain the database within this national       repository from June 2014, with editorial oversight from Mann and others,       a transfer which will also see the family and place name evidence in RPS       enhanced in conjunction with Scotland's People, providing direct       linkages for genealogists.
In addition, since 2000 Mann has developed       online resources about the history of the Scottish Parliament for schools,       including a free-access web site of documents, images and workshops,       re-launched to the public in 2008 and which has now totalled 228,333 hits       [below 5.
iii.
], in conjunction with Virtual Teaching Scotland, Learning       and Teaching Scotland, and the Scottish Association of Teachers in History       (SATH, c.400 members, within EUROCLIO, the permanent standing conference       of European History teachers' associations).
Mann, McAlister, Penman and       James Smyth hosted three professional RPS development workshops       for teachers in 2009-10 (reaching 150+ teachers), linked into their papers       in a special issue of the SATH Yearbook, 24, 2010, pp.
4-25.
In       2009 Mann, MacIntosh and Brown also initiated partnership with the       Holyrood Parliament's Inward Education Manager to develop an on-line Timeline         of the Scottish Parliament as a free educational resource (launched       2010, currently averaging 12 pageviews per day).
This material has       significant value for Scottish teachers and pupils preparing for the new       Scottish/British historical content of the revised `curriculum for       excellence', with RPS particularly valuable in `developing       resources' [SATH forum, 23/3/12] for senior pupils preparing for       Advanced Higher and dissertations.
Since the opening of the Holyrood       Parliament in 2004, Mann has also been lead historical consultant on       procedural/ceremonial development for the Scottish Parliament and       regularly assists the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe) with       public queries: for example in 2011-12 over whether it was possible to       petition the old parliament as it is with the new and how the opening       `riding' of the old parliament was choreographed.
All these       resources/activities are interlinked by the worldwide-web.
Mann has been invited to deliver papers and RPS-user       demonstrations to a number of international networks of scholars,       archivists, legal professionals and policy-makers planning national-scale       editorial and resource projects.
He has advised Spanish       academics/archivists directly on developing similar online free-access       record projects (in anticipation of historic anniversaries for 1516 and       1813) and, with MacIntosh and Brown, demonstrated RPS at       International Commission for the History of Representative and       Parliamentary Institutions (http://www.ichrpi.com/)       conferences in Barcelona, Edinburgh, Lisbon, Sardinia, Sicily and Dublin       down to 2013: that in Sicily, for example, was attended by the Speaker of       the Sicilian Regional Assembly and deputies and senators from Parlamento         Italiano, Rome, seeking comparative briefings so as to better       understand procedural and cultural lessons from parliaments past and       present.
In July 2013, at the annual conference of the Society for the       History of Authorship, Reading and Publishing (SHARP-http://www.sharpweb.org/)       in Pennsylvania, Mann (also a book(trade) historian and SHARP member)       demonstrated RPS live for the first time in North America to 20       institutional, independent, and private libraries; 9 scholarly societies,       and 12 publishers from Europe, South America and Asia (alongside 66 USA       universities and 57 non-US universities), as well as a range of       independent and private book collectors as part of a `digital projects       showcase'.
As a result, in the summer of 2013 the highest number of       monthly RPS website hits was seen since the launch in 2008 (down       to end September 2013 there were 12,209 visits from 8,131 unique users).
RPS       is now central to a new SHARP digital network initiative where advice is       made available to those seeking to create new digital and online       free-to-access multi-user projects.
