     Professor Baker's research work has had significant impacts in       understanding drug abuse in sport and in       enhancing sports performance as explained and evidenced below.
As a direct consequence of his reputation and research within the sports       drug research field (3.1-3.5),       strong collaborative links have been established with the World's leading       authority on anti-doping in       sport/exercise, namely the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).
This       relationship has led to a much more       comprehensive understanding by WADA of the extent of anabolic steroid and       growth hormone supply       and the potential physiological consequences of using these drugs (5.1).
One of the major unexpected       findings from this collaboration was that, when growth hormone was       administered at the correct dosages,       there were beneficial effects observed.
These included cardiovascular,       respiratory function, lean tissue       mass development and improvements in strength.
However, the subjects       studied tended to use higher       than recommended dosages which were detrimental and potentially led to       increases in cardiovascular,       cerebral, and hepatic risk.
Therefore it can be seen that his work has led       to greater understanding of the       health (and consequent economic) consequences of AAS abuse.
With regard to output 3.3 in particular, Professor Baker was invited by       WADA to disseminate his findings       at a Physiological Society meeting at King College (5.4).
An invited       audience comprised an international       range of scientists and medical staff, support workers and practioners.
Therefore Professor Baker's work       has contributed to international understanding of the potential       physiological benefits and risks of AAS       abuse.
In addition, the research related to counterfeit performance       enhancing drugs and self-administered       polypharmacy regimes has been invaluable in informing WADA as to where       analytical       capability is most needed and thus this research has directly informed the       policy makers within WADA in       terms of shaping future practice.
Professor Baker's research (3.2, 3.4 and 3.5) has also had direct impact       for the Welsh Rugby Union       (WRU) (see 5.2).
The recommendations and guidelines arising from Professor       Baker's research work on       the potential dangers of steroid abuse in sport have directly informed the       strategic approach, operational       policies and procedures of the WRU in relation to steroid abuse.
Guidelines have now been designed in       order to ensure that Clubs at all levels throughout Wales are cognisant of       the challenges involved in       preventing steroid abuse.
As a result of Professor Baker's work, the WRU       has now introduced an       educational induction programme involving seminars on the dangers of AAS       abuse, has initiated a test       regime, and now offers counselling for affected players.
The early       identification of problems is paramount       to reducing harmful effects.
Professor Baker's research has demonstrated       that sports drug abusers are       less likely to seek help (despite simple possession not being a legal       offence) as some users believe that       their abuse of such drugs is illegal or otherwise stigmatised.
The       reduction of barriers to health seeking       behaviours by the use of the WRU guidelines and signposts are therefore of       critical importance in helping       to alleviate or prevent health problems.
Thus it can be seen that the       research work of Professor Baker       has had direct impact for the WRU in their capacity as the leaders of       community development of rugby in       Wales and on the health of AAS abusers.
In 2010, Professor Baker was invited to contribute to the Advisory       Council on the Misuse of Drugs       (ACMD) report (5.3) that was sent to the Home Secretary and the Secretary       of State for Health.
The       report was commissioned due to the ACMD's increasing concerns about the       use of anabolic steroids by       the general public, and in particular young people.
The purpose of the       report was to consider the       evidence of harms and provide advice on potential harm reduction       mechanisms.
The ACMD set out to       consider the available evidence regarding anabolic steroid use/misuse,       physical and social harms.
Given       Professor Baker's findings with regard to counterfeit drugs (3.1) and, in       particular, the points relating to       the ease of purchase of such drugs and their potential harmful effects       arising from skin commensal       organisms, his work was instrumental in informing the debate and       facilitating the resultant practical advice       on the use of such drugs.
It should also be noted that this report also       referenced several other influential       pre-UWS research papers by Professor Baker.
Further international impact is evident by the inclusion of Professor       Baker's findings on the prevalence of       counterfeit drugs (3.1) in a review report (5.5) which was funded by the       United States National Institute on       Drug Abuse and which is disseminated via the US National Library of       Medicine.
This position statement,       which reviewed the abuse of Androgens and appearance and       performance-enhancing substances       worldwide, is used by a wide variety of stakeholders who have an interest       in Androgen dependence.
Two further authorities reports (5.6 and 5.7), disseminated by the       Australian Crime Commission, rely on       evidence from Baker et al (3.1) identifies the scale of the international       problem in relation to AAS       counterfeit supply and the associated potential health and safety issues       for users.
In summary, Baker's work has been demonstrated to have shaped public and       sports policy within an       international arena, educated stakeholders on harm reduction, and       potentially safeguarded and protected       the health of countless AAS users of all ages.
