     Cruft's evidence had significant impact on the theoretical underpinnings       of the Leveson report.
The most considerable impact was on the sections in       which Lord Leveson outlines the principles which he takes to ground the       importance of a free press.
In these sections (Vol.
I, Part B, Chapter 2,       sections 3 and 4 (pp.
61-65)), Leveson gives significant weight to Cruft's       evidence, citing Cruft four times here and quoting a total of 21 lines       from his evidence.
In conjunction with Onora O'Neill's evidence (cited       four times here, quoting a total of 10 lines) and that of Neil Manson and       Christopher Megone (two citations each) and Susan Mendus and Alan       Rusbridger (one citation each), Cruft's work on the value of a free press       is taken as a foundation for the report's approach to the value of a free       press.
Notably, the relevant sections of the report are organised in a way that       mirrors Cruft's evidence and reflects the central distinctions in his       research.
The report's Ch.
2, section 3 (`The importance of a free press:       free communication') focuses on the non-instrumental value of freedom of       expression, citing and expounding Cruft's distinction between basic       personal rights to free expression that are individualistically justified       and non-instrumentally valuable, and the rights of press organisations       whose value is purely instrumental, and which cannot be       individualistically justified.
Thus for example, section 3 ends with the       claim that `[t]he fundamental point is that unlike freedom of expression       for individuals, which has intrinsic merit as a form of self-expression,       press freedom [...] is largely understood as an instrumental good, to be       valued, promoted and protected to the extent that it is [...] to serve its       important democratic functions' (p. 63).
Continuing the continuity with       Cruft's evidence, the report's section 4 (`The importance of a free press:       public debate and holding power to account') moves on to the instrumental       values of a free press, focusing on the two aspects - constraining power       and enabling democratic deliberation - highlighted in Cruft's testimony.
Later, the report's Chapter 3, section 2 (a section focused specifically       on the value of individual freedom of expression) approvingly cites       Cruft's notion of a non-instrumentally valuable liberal public sphere       constituted by certain rights (p. 71).
Reference to Cruft's view of the       rights of media organisations as instrumentally and       non-individualistically grounded occurs again on p. 84 (Chapter 4, section       4 `Press ethics and the role of a code of ethics').
A related central aspect of Cruft's work that plays a significant part in       informing the Leveson report is Cruft's view on the relation between moral       duties, professional practice and regulation.
For Cruft, the relation       between moral duties, law and regulation is complex; moral duties need not       and sometimes should not be enshrined in law or regulation (see (A) and       (F) above).
In Chapter 4, sections 4.15 and 4.16, the report focuses on       what culture and practices would make a media industry recognisably       `ethical'.
In 4.16, Lord Leveson quotes 18 lines from Cruft's evidence,       prefacing the quotation thus: `It is worth setting out extracts from some       of the answers to this question which appear to me to be particularly       illuminative'.
In his evidence to the Inquiry, Cruft drew inferences about the       particular requirements that his view of the grounding of competing rights       supports.
He suggested that the instrumental grounding for a free press       was compatible with, and might often justify, requiring proprietors,       editors and journalists to declare their financial and political       interests, and to report payments made or received for publishing a story.
This suggestion is cited in the report, Part K (`Regulatory Models for the       Future'), section 8.15 (on the contents of a code of practice for the       press), p. 1684.
In addition to its impact on Lord Leveson's report &#8212; and in particular,       its foundational role in the conception of the value of a free press and       freedom of expression grounding the report &#8212; Cruft's work on the nature       and grounds of different rights also received a wider public airing       through his participation in the Inquiry.
The written and spoken evidence       is in the public sphere, available online on the Inquiry website; Cruft's       spoken evidence was also podcast live on http://www.bbc.co.uk/democracylive/,       where a recording of the session is still available.
As a result, Cruft's       evidence was discussed by interested members of the public in online fora       and in several comments (c. 20) on twitter.
Cruft also gave a follow-up       talk to students and members of the public in Stirling, outlining the       position he expounded for the Inquiry.
