     Inherited retinal degenerations     The inherited retinal dystrophies affect about 1 in 3,000 individuals and       include retinitis pigmentosa       and cone-rod dystrophies.
These disorders are caused by mutations in a       very large number of       genes.
There are some non-progressive conditions but the majority progress       relentlessly with       currently no effective therapy.
The personal and societal impact of what       in many instances is life-       long visual impairment is substantial.
The research described above has made a substantial contribution to the       overall body of       knowledge of the genetics of eye disease and how that impacts on the lives       of patients.
Although       our ability to treat is, as yet, limited, there are very real benefits to       accurate genetic testing and       associated counselling.
As outlined in guidelines from the American       Academy of Ophthalmology on       genetic testing of inherited eye disease, "Genetic testing can make a         very positive impact on         individuals and families affected with inherited eye disease in a number         of ways.
When properly         performed, interpreted, and acted on, genetic tests can improve the         accuracy of diagnoses and         prognoses, can improve the accuracy of genetic counseling, can reduce         the risk of disease         occurrence or recurrence in families at risk, and can facilitate the         development and delivery of         mechanism-specific care" [a].
Guidelines such as this all       support the benefits of genetic testing for       patients thought to have eye disease inherited in a broadly Mendelian       fashion.
It is important to       note that the underpinning research cited above has also defined important       phenotypical       characteristics of these diseases, both in terms of appearances of the       back of the eye and       electrophysiology.
All of this comes together to improve diagnostic       accuracy for patients.
This in       turn leads to improved genetic counselling (including prenatal and       pre-implantation diagnosis) and       better information about long-term prognosis.
This is only possible when       the genetic cause of       disease in an individual patient is known.
Our research has identified a       large number of genes that       are associated with inherited retinal disease and has made such clinical       advances possible.
Laboratories around the world now offer genetic testing for eye disease.
For example, the US       National Eye Institute created the eyeGENE Network to provide US patients       with access to genetic       testing for eye disease.
Many of the tests offered include genes       identified through our research [b].
In the UK, tests for genes we identified are offered by (among others)       Asper Biotech, the North       West Regional Genetics Service, Manchester and the Yorkshire Regional       Genetics Service, Leeds       [c].
From 2008-13 just at Moorfields, 4,952 patients have had       genetic testing and counselling.
A       study we conducted in 2013 confirmed the overall benefits of genetic       testing for retinal disease [d].
AMD Testing     Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the commonest cause of       blindness registration in the       UK and presents an escalating burden given the expanding elderly       population in western societies.
The C3 polymorphism we identified (ref [6] above) is currently used in       diagnostic tests marketed by       Arctic Dx and Sequenom [e].
The value of this polymorphism is       indicated by a recent US challenge       concerning its use for diagnostic purposes (Patent Interference No       105,897) [f].
The recent report       that inhibition of the complement pathway may alter the rate of       progression of geographic atrophy,       one of the blinding manifestations of AMD, makes the importance of testing       of the genetics of the       complement pathway even more important, as it may be amenable to       therapeutic intervention.
Gene Therapy     Our fundamental studies of gene therapy have led to the first gene       therapy treatment of patients       with retinal degeneration.
Our studies, and those of other groups in the       USA, are showing that this       approach can bring benefit and, although the number of patients treated to       date is small, the hope       that these advances have brought is colossal.
The then Minister of State       for Public Health       described the trial as: "a major achievement for British science and         the NHS [which] shows we         truly are at the forefront of innovation" [g].
We have       established a new era of therapeutics, not only       for inherited eye disease but also for acquired conditions.
These       initiatives have also brought       investment into the UK through our partnership with Targeted Genetics       Corporation (Seattle).
The       transformational studies have captured the imagination of the scientific       community, the media and       politicians alike.
The substantial coverage our trial received has helped       build the UK's reputation       for gene therapy and our collaborator Oxford Biomedica has recently       embarked on a major       programme of ophthalmic gene therapy following substantial investment from       Sanofi [h].
Genzyme, using similar technology to that used in our early studies, are       currently running a trial of       gene therapy for age-related macular degeneration [i].
