     Principal beneficiaries and dates: Girls in the six African       countries that the IOE researchers have       worked in are the main beneficiaries.
The benefits have been accruing       since 2008.
Reach and significance: The countries that the researchers have       been operating in cover an area       almost 20 times as big as the UK and have an estimated school-age       population of just over 100       million 1.
Each study has worked directly with several thousand         girls and the projects have had a         demonstrable impact (see below) on national &#8212; as well as local &#8212; policy         and practice in these         countries.
The research is helping to shape international policies aimed         at improving girls'         educational and life chances.
It has also influenced Westminster MPs'         thinking on a) how to         combat gender violence and b) what the post-2015 Millennium Development         Goals should be.
All         three studies have achieved significant instrumental impacts 2           (i.e.
influencing the development of           policy or practice).
They have also had important capacity-building           impacts.
Paths to impact: Local promotion of their findings by the SVAGS       and TEGINT teams, supported       by IOE staff, proved to be a valuable way of influencing politicians and       community leaders.
GEGPRI incorporated report-back sessions with participants at each       research site, allowing them       to reflect on findings with researchers.
The findings were then fed into       influential reports, including       a special issue of The Lancet (see impact source S1).
Study 1:SVAGS &#8212; Sexual violence by Kenyan teachers:       Following the IOE team's       recommendations on codes of conduct for teachers, SVAGS encouraged the       drafting of a       Teachers' Service Commission (TSC) circular on sexual violence, issued by       the Ministry of       Education and the TSC.
The Kenya National Union of Teachers helped to       draft the circular and has       declared that it will not protect teachers guilty of sex offences.
The       circular aims to ensure that       offenders are not simply transferred to other schools.
Awareness of the       circular was guaranteed by       a simple strategy: attaching it to teachers' pay slips.
A database to       track teachers with sex offence       records has also been set up.
Sanitation: The IOE's       findings on the number of girls missing five       days' schooling a month when menstruating triggered a media campaign for       national funds to       provide sanitary pads for schoolgirls.
This achieved a remarkable result       when the Kenyan       government agreed to set aside US$3.7 million (&#163;2.3m) for this purpose       from June 2011 (S2 &amp; S3).
Police initiatives in Ghana: The finding that child       protection systems were inadequate resulted in       the project building new links between the Education Service and the       Police Service.
Police in the       project area have since worked more closely with schools and communities,       raising awareness of       appropriate responses to violent acts and encouraging girls to feel more       confident about reporting       these crimes.
This model is now being copied in the nine other regions of       Ghana.
School clubs in           Mozambique: The baseline study underscoring the importance of       school clubs &#8212; coupled with a       petition from a project school &#8212; drew a rapid response from the Minister       of Girls' Education.
Officials were directed to create space in schools for pupils to discuss       issues such as violence,       gender and HIV/AIDS.
The government later said that by 2014 every school       in Mozambique should       have a club.
University teaching: Eduardo Mondlane       University, Mozambique, adopted teaching       approaches based on the participatory pedagogies used in workshops run by       Parkes and Heslop       (S4).
The SVAGS baseline report is on the reading list of the MA       course on Education and       Development at the University of East Anglia.
Commons invitation:       The SVAGS study led to       Parkes being invited to make a written submission to the House of Commons       International       Development Committee inquiry into violence against women and girls in       2013.
The evidence she       submitted with Heslop &#8212; highlighting the pivotal role of educational       institutions &#8212; generated one of       the few references to education in the resulting report (S5).
This       document summarises their       proposals and comments: "More detailed analysis and guidance is required       on how [DFID]       programmes ... can best address violence against women and girls ...This       expertise exists, as the       excellent evidence we received attests, and must be used".
Study 2: TEGINT &#8212; Girls' clubs: Following IOE       recommendations about the importance of building       up girls' clubs, all but two of Tanzania's TEGINT schools have established       clubs.
Their 2,400       members have participated in children's bunges (parliament       sessions), barazas (debates), and       other activities affirming girls' right to education.
In Nigeria, girls'       clubs have been set up in every       one of the 72 TEGINT schools.
In 2010-11, more than 5,100 Nigerian girls       took part in debates and       other school activities highlighting gender equality.
All girls' clubs in       both countries are led by a       mentor &#8212; usually a female teacher trained in promoting girls' rights,       gender-sensitive teaching       approaches, and sexual and reproductive health.
These mentors were       appointed after the IOE       researchers recommended that strong female role models were needed.
In       Nigeria, 24 girls and six       female teachers from across all states led the development of the Girls'         Club Manual, containing       guidelines for establishing and running these clubs.
This manual is now       being used throughout Nigeria.
Girls' empowerment: The TEGINT endline studies       showed that, in the project areas in       Tanzania and Nigeria, girls who had joined clubs were more aware of their       rights than non-club       members and were more likely to challenge discrimination and violence (as       measured by a girls'       empowerment index that the IOE developed for the project).
Reducing           absenteeism: Mapping out-       of-school girls is reducing absenteeism in Nigeria.
Almost 1,600       out-of-school girls were identified       in TEGINT districts in 2011 through termly mapping and outreach work led       by girls' club members.
Girls and mentors co-ordinated home visits and sought school or local       government backing to       encourage parents to bring girls back to school.
Books or uniforms were       sometimes offered as       inducements.
Hundreds of girls subsequently returned to school.
Local           government: TEGINT       lobbying through girls' clubs led to the establishment of `gender desks'       (posts focusing on gender       concerns) in 17 local education authorities in Nigeria in 2010.
Gender-sensitive           school           management: The study highlighted weaknesses in the management       and monitoring of gender       concerns in schools.
Training and support was therefore given to all       school committees involved in       the project.
This has so far enabled all TEGINT schools in Nigeria, and a       third of project schools in       Tanzania, to prepare gender-sensitive plans and budgets.
Girls now take       part in management       committee meetings in over half of Tanzanian primary schools.
Study 3: GEGPRI &#8212; South Africa: As a result of this       research, the South African education       depart	ment worked with provincial officials and schools to understand       better the links between       poverty, gender inequality and teenage pregnancy &#8212; and establish how       schoolgirl pregnancy could       be managed more effectively.
One senior government official (S6)       said the research had       encouraged the department "to engage much more deeply with the complexity       of inequality, the       multiple causes of teenage pregnancy, the need to eradicate a `blaming       girls' culture, how       practically to bring girls back into schools.
In my view, the research was       ground-breaking:       examining so many different layers of policy implementation and thinking       about policy from the       micro levels of schools, meso levels of district and provincial education       departments, through to the       macro levels of national and global policy".
Global level:       GEGPRI findings were used to frame the       content of the UN Girls' Education Initiative (UNGEI) conference in Dakar,       Senegal, in 2010       (S7&amp;S8).
The conference was attended by activists,       academics, practitioners, girls, and high-level       policy-makers, and helped to accelerate efforts to improve education       provision for girls.
Insights       from the study also fed into 16 country action plans on girls' education       developed at the conference       and were reflected in the Dakar Declaration, which stressed the       multi-dimensional aspects of       poverty (S9).
Studies 1-3: Ministerial Summit: In April 2013, the       IOE findings also helped to inform a Call to       Action that was issued at an eight-country `Learning for All' Ministerial       Summit in Washington DC.
Unterhalter was a member of the UNGEI group that helped to draft the Call,       which, among other       things, seeks strategic efforts to combat gender-based violence (S10).
This Call was subsequently       welcomed by the UN's Special Envoy for Global Education, Gordon Brown.
House of Commons: Unterhalter was also invited (with       University of London colleagues) to present       evidence to the International Development Committee's 2012 inquiry into       the post-2015 Millennium       Development Goals (S11).
Several of the researchers'       recommendations - e.g.
that there should       be a standalone gender goal and that gender should be threaded through all       the goals - were       adopted by the Committee.
