     Beneficiaries and dates of impact       The main beneficiaries are the tens of thousands of young people in       England from less       advantaged backgrounds who are more likely to go on to HE because of these       studies.
The       benefits have been accumulating since 2009.
Reach and significance       These two projects have had a very substantial effect on government       thinking on HE funding and       social mobility, as David Willetts, Minister for Universities and Science,       has himself confirmed (see       below).
The government has recognised that the impact of tuition fees in       England can be mitigated       by income-contingent loans and grants.
It has also acknowledged &#8212; partly       because of the IOE       research &#8212; that earlier intervention is needed in order to widen       participation in HE.
These studies       have therefore had an instrumental impact 1 (influencing policy).
The research on widening         participation has also had an important conceptual impact (enhancing         general understanding and         informing debate) as its findings have been widely reported by the media         and have generated         considerable public debate.
Instrumental impact       The researchers helped to ensure that their work became known to       policy-makers by presenting       their findings at two research conferences organised by the Department for       Children, Schools and       Families and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS).
They also discussed their       results in informal meetings with senior civil servants.
Study 1: Dearden and Wyness were called before the Browne       Review of higher education funding       and student finance in January 2010.
Dearden and Vignoles also made       presentations to this       Review in May 2010 and Dearden was later called as an expert witness to a       BIS Select Committee       hearing on the future of HE.
She was involved in extensive discussions       with HM Treasury and       ministerial advisers in BIS prior to the publication of the HE White Paper       in July 2011.
The final       decisions about the financial package were influenced by Dearden's work.
She was involved in       independently verifying the implications of different options that       ministers were considering &#8212; and       the consequences for students from a range of backgrounds.
David Willetts       acknowledged the       importance of Dearden's contribution in a letter he sent her on November       6, 2012.
"I can confirm       that the analysis of the impact of the 2006 reforms undertaken by the IOE       was a key piece of       evidence for the Browne Review, giving the best quantification of the       effects of increasing fees", he       wrote.
"Subsequent work carried out in collaboration with the Institute       for Fiscal Studies 2 on the         impact of the new system was considered carefully alongside the         Department's own internal         modeling in deciding how to set the parameters of the repayment system.
As this work is updated it         continues to provide useful insights and an external comparison with         which to check the         government's assumptions on, for example, the public cost of the loan         repayments system" &#8212; see         impact source S1.
Study 2: Crawford and Vignoles have also been involved in       several high-level Westminster       discussions on social mobility.
They attended meetings with the Deputy       Prime Minister, Nick       Clegg, on June 8, 2011, and Alan Milburn, author of a major 2012       government report on social       mobility, on July 21, 2011 (S2).
Vignoles has also advised some of       the key organisations involved       in promoting social mobility, such as the Bridge Group.
Its Chair said       that Alan Milburn used some       of the advice that Vignoles gave to her group "to underpin his discussions       with UCAS and with the       universities he is visiting".
One of the tangible outcomes of Vignoles's work on widening participation       is bestCourse4me.com,       the not-for-profit website that was established as a direct result of a       presentation she gave on her       research in New York in 2008.
She told her audience that, if funding were       available, someone       should set up a website to ensure that young people were better informed       about their HE options.
David Willetts was at the conference and endorsed her proposal.
With his       help a main sponsor for       the site was found &#8212; the philanthropist Steven Edwards, a former software       entrepreneur (S3).
The       site, also backed by Microsoft, broke new ground because for the first       time data on employment,       careers and salaries were brought together to help inform students' choice       of institution and       subject.
By July 31, 2013, the site had attracted 225,158 unique users.
Steven Edwards has       confirmed that Vignoles deserves a great deal of credit for this       achievement."
She [Vignoles] has       been very important in the development of the website, from initially       proposing the idea through       support and advice on identifying the best and most practical data sets,       to valuable guidance on       the best way of presenting the information to educationally disadvantaged       students", he said.
"The       site would not exist without her contribution and continues to benefit       significantly from her       involvement."
The government has also acknowledged &#8212; partly thanks to the work of       Vignoles and her       colleagues &#8212; that the key to widening participation in HE is earlier       intervention.
The Director of       Development and Policy for the Sutton Trust has confirmed that Vignoles's       work in this area has       had a significant impact.
He said: "The research Anna Vignoles has done       for us has been highly       influential on HE policy thinking in government and elsewhere &#8212; detailing       the extent to which       university participation rates are driven by prior school attainment, and       demonstrating the need for       informed choice for prospective students" (S4).
The government       recognised the importance of       early advice and guidance in the 2011 HE White Paper and, following its       publication, Vignoles and       Crawford were invited to a meeting with David Willetts to discuss HE and       social mobility.
They       were then asked to produce a review which fed into the Cabinet Office       report on this issue (S5).
Conceptual impact       Dearden and Vignoles publicised their findings by contacting specific       education correspondents &#8212;       primarily to reach parents and teachers.
Study 1: The researchers gave several interviews to the       BBC, including one for the Today       programme on December 9, 2010, on the impact of HE funding on       participation rates.
This       interview was particularly important in terms of opinion-shaping as Today       had a weekly audience of       6.63 million listeners during this period (S6).
Study 2:Vignoles's research was reported by several       national daily newspapers, including the       Independent, which carried an article on bestCourse4me.com (S7).
The THE (Times Higher) also       carried a lengthy feature on widening participation in February 2010.It       noted that for years schools       had claimed that university admission arrangements were biased against       state school students       while top universities had rejected this claim.
The article's author then       added, referring to       Vignoles's study: "But there are signs that the debate is shifting.
The       publication of one piece of       research in particular, which shows that attainment is the key to       university entry, has been key ...       [this showed that] once academic achievement has been taken into account,       pupils from lower       socioeconomic backgrounds were more or less equally likely to go to       university as their more       advantaged peers, and to an institution of equal status" (S8).
