     Principal beneficiaries and dates of impact: Thousands of       apprentices and other trainees       involved in work-related learning have benefited from the enhanced       training experiences that       Unwin's research has promoted.
Many employers and apprenticeship providers       have also       benefited, as they are now evaluating their training programmes by       referring to the ideal       (expansive) model.
This makes it easier to identify the improvements       needed.
For the state, the       E&amp;R model helps to ensure that public money is not squandered.
It also       provides a catalyst for       economic growth.
The benefits of Unwin's work have been particularly       evident since 2008.
Reach and significance: Unwin's research has shaped thinking in       training organisations,       businesses, unions, hospitals, colleges and the third sector as well as       influencing government       agencies, Select Committees and Ministers.
The value of her research is       also internationally       recognised.
She advises the OECD and the European Training Foundation on       vocational       education and training (VET).
Both of these international organisations       have acknowledged the       significance of her work and ensured that its reach continues to extend.
Unwin's research has had       two important types of impact which can be categorised1 as         `instrumental' (influencing policy         and/or practice) and `conceptual' (enhancing general understanding and         informing debate).
Instrumental impact:       Select Committees: The reputation that Unwin has established       as a result of her research means       that her advice is often sought by policy-makers.
In 2008, for example,       she served as a specialist       adviser to the Commons Select Committee for Innovation, Universities,       Science and Skills during       its scrutiny of the Apprenticeship Bill.
This appointment triggered the       first public admission that       `conversions' made up seven in ten UK apprenticeships &#8212; an issue that the       coalition government       has now agreed to address (see Richard Review below).
The Committee Chair       asked the Learning       and Skills Council for this information at Unwin's suggestion.
The       admission exposed the key       problem underlying short-duration apprenticeships.
Unwin and Fuller also       briefed Committee       members on their E&amp;R model to help them think through the       characteristics of good quality       apprenticeships and, hence, the types of questions that should be posed to       witnesses.
The       researchers were also invited to make a written submission to the BIS       Select Committee       investigation into apprenticeships in 2012.
This Committee's final report       noted that Unwin and       Fuller had said that while the National Apprenticeship Service (NAS) might       be justified in claiming       success against its objectives, it had been given inappropriate       objectives.
The Committee then       called for an urgent review of the Service's objectives and priorities.
Another argument that Unwin       put to the Committee &#8212; that apprenticeship funding is "diluted through       multiple steps" in the cash       allocation chain &#8212; was also supported in its final report.
Significantly,       three organisations that gave       evidence to the Committee &#8212; City &amp; Guilds, the Edge Foundation and the       Association of Teachers       and Lecturers (ATL) &#8212; quoted her work.
Evidence that Unwin and Fuller gave       to another       parliamentary investigation in 2012 &#8212; the Public Accounts Committee review       of Adult       Apprenticeship &#8212; prompted the majority of the Committee's questions to the       Permanent Secretary       at the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) and the chief       executives of the Skills       Funding Agency and the NAS.
Influence on Green Paper: In 2008, Unwin was invited to       meet John Hayes (then Shadow Minister       for Skills) to discuss apprenticeship and VET.
David Willetts (then Shadow       Secretary of State for       Innovation, Universities and Skills) also asked to meet her when he       visited the IOE in 2008.
Following those meetings, Unwin's research fed into the Conservative       Party's Green Paper on       Apprenticeship (July 2008).
Hayes also referred to Unwin's work several       times in the House of       Commons.
On February 7, 2008, during a debate on the Education and Skills       Bill, he said: "I       recommend her [Unwin's] work ... She is an authority on training and       particularly on       apprenticeships.
She told the [Public Bill] Committee that some       apprenticeships contain little or no       guided or mentored workplace learning.
That is a shocking fact".
A year       later he made two       references to Unwin and Fuller's work during a debate on apprenticeship &#8212;       see impact source S1.
Other advice to ministers: In July 2010, during the       Comprehensive Spending Review, Unwin and       Fuller were invited to submit a paper to Willetts (Minister of State for       Universities and Science) and       Hayes (then Minister of State for FE, Skills and Lifelong Learning).
That       same year Unwin attended       a meeting with Willetts and Vince Cable (Business Secretary) on the       coalition government's skills       strategy, and took part in a discussion with the BIS team at the Treasury.
Unwin, who is a member       of the all-parliamentary Skills Commission, was also one of two academics       invited to a seminar       with George Osborne (Chancellor of the Exchequer) in August 2010.
Commission of inquiry: Unwin was asked to chair the       independent Commission of Inquiry into the       role of England's Group Training Associations (GTAs) between January and       April 2012 (GTAs are       not-for-profit, employer-led organisations).
The Commission was       established by GTA England with       the support of the NAS.
Unwin wrote the resulting report, published in       September 2012.
John       Hayes (then Skills Minister) publicly thanked her for her "valuable       research into the GTA model       and for identifying how it might be expanded to benefit other sectors and       regions".
The NAS is now       working with GTA England to pursue the report's recommendations.
Richard Review of Apprenticeships: Unwin and Fuller's work       was also highlighted in this Review,       conducted by Doug Richard and published in 2012.
Unwin was invited to a       BIS seminar for       Richard at the start of his Review, and to a follow-up meeting with him.
She was also asked to       comment in detail on the draft report &#8212; and was later told by a National       Apprenticeship Service       Director that the input that she and Fuller made to the Review had been       "crucial" (S2).
The Review       refers to and endorses their argument that there is a need for more       meaningful off-site learning.
It       also calls for an end to `conversions'.
"Apprenticeships should be       redefined", the Review       concluded.
"They should be clearly targeted at those who are new to a job       or role that requires       sustained and substantial training."
The government accepted this       recommendation in March 2013       (S3).
Wolf Review: Unwin also gave evidence to the Wolf Review of       14-19 vocational education and was       cited in the 2011 report.
Colleges and lecturers: Unwin's thinking on how the E&amp;R       framework can be applied in FE colleges       has been endorsed by the Institute for Learning (IfL), which advocates the       model in many of its       publications (IfL represents teachers, tutors and trainers in the FE and       skills sector).
The model       has also been promoted by the Association of Employment and Learning       Providers, the Learning       and Skills Improvement Service, the 157 Group, which represents 27       regionally influential FE       colleges, and the ATL.
The national official for post-16 education at the       ATL says the [E&amp;R] model       "has caught the imagination of those shaping opinion in the sector ... ATL       has promoted the model       for some years now ...
It is so successful because it is based in reality,       it is simple, and it is clear       as to how colleges and organisations can become better learning       environments" (S4).
Adult education: The E&amp;R model has featured strongly in       the thinking of the Commission on Adult       Vocational Teaching and Learning, which appointed Unwin as an academic       adviser.
Its 2013       report stresses the importance of expansive learning environments.
The       National Institute of Adult       Continuing Education also uses the E&amp;R model to inform its       deliberations on workplace learning       and apprenticeship.
Employers and unions: The Chartered Institute for Personnel       and Development (CIPD) has       promoted the use of the E&amp;R framework in its Guide for Employers:         Apprenticeships that Work.
The CIPD is the world's largest chartered human resource and development       professional body,       with more than 135,000 members in 120 countries (S5).
Employers       such as Siemens apply the       framework, as do public sector organisations, such as hospitals (S6).
Unionlearn, the TUC's       learning and skills arm, also uses the framework to promote high quality       apprenticeships (S7).
Third sector: Rathbone, a UK-wide youth sector       organisation, makes many references to the E&amp;R       model in its apprenticeships handbook, published in 2009.
It measures the       success of its       apprenticeship programme against the E&amp;R continuum (S8).
Rathbone worked with 2,300       apprentices in 2008/9.
The Brathay Trust, a charity that helps to develop       the motivation and skills       of vulnerable young people, and FairTrain, the group training association       for the voluntary sector,       also acknowledge that their policies have been significantly influenced by       Unwin and Fuller.
Worldskills competition: Jenny Shackleton, head of skills       development at the NAS, has said that       the idea of expansive apprenticeships helped to underpin the UK team's       preparations for the 2011       WorldSkills competition in which it came 5th out of 49 nations       &#8212; its highest-ever placing (S9).
Conceptual impact:       Commentary and guide: In 2008, Unwin and Fuller were       commissioned by the TLRP to write a       commentary on apprenticeship.
This brought the E&amp;R framework to a much       wider audience.
They       were then asked to write Creating and Managing Expansive         Apprenticeships: A Guide for         Employers, Training Providers and Colleges of Further Education,       published by the NAS in 2011.
This proved so popular that the NAS commissioned a new version of the       guide from the       researchers in February 2013.
Non-academic writing: Unwin has written many articles on       apprenticeship for publications aimed at       the public, practitioners and policy-makers.
These have appeared in the Guardian,       TES, Adults         Learning, and The House magazine, which is delivered to       every MP and peer.
Public speaking: Unwin also accepts many speaking       engagements.
In October 2011, she gave a       keynote presentation at an NAS conference held as part of WorldSkills in       London, and in June       2012 she spoke at the national conference of the Association of Employment       and Learning       Providers.
She addressed the DEMOS event at the Labour Party Conference in       October 2012.
