     Dates of impact: Impacts between 2008 and 2013 extend the       reputation and influence earned in       earlier phases of the study.
A high point is the extension of free       pre-school provision to all three- and four-year-olds in 2010.
Principal beneficiaries: Children aged 2-5 through universally       delivered and targeted pre-school       provision (for children needing extra help &#8212; some 20% of the child       population, i.e.
about 130,000       youngsters a year); practitioners in early years settings; local and       national policy-makers in the UK       and abroad.
Reach and significance: EPPSE changed thinking and practice       relating to pre-school entitlement,       pedagogy, curriculum and teacher education.
Citations by international       NGOs such as UNICEF       and UNESCO attest to its global reach.
The project improved the prospects       of generations of       children by highlighting the home and educational factors that make a       difference to child outcomes,       especially for disadvantaged children.
EPPSE can therefore point to high       levels of instrumental       impact2 (influencing policy and/or practice), conceptual impact         (enhancing general understanding         and informing debate) and capacity building, as evidenced below.
Instrumental impact: Policy: EPPSE has influenced many major       policy decisions affecting young       children (R4).
Since 2008 it has been referred to in seven       Parliamentary debates or supporting       evidence, six DfE Research Strategies, five National Childcare Strategies,       19 major Policy       Reviews and four UNESCO/UNICEF reports.
The researchers have advised       Ministers and civil       servants including those from the National Audit Office (NAO), HM Treasury       (HMT) and       Department for Education (DfE), and Parliamentary select committees.
Findings have been used       by local authorities across the UK and all four UK national governments.
EPPSE reports are       consistently in the top 10 downloads on the DfE publications website.
Pre-school: EPPSE findings have underpinned all HM Treasury       Comprehensive Spending       Reviews and National Childcare Strategies since 2000.
The most significant       impact has been       derived from reporting the benefits of high quality pre-school, which led       to free provision for all 3       and 4-year-olds, starting in 2010.
The NAO (2012, p 13, S1) used EPPSE to justify increasing         investment in early years.
The Government's More Great Childcare cites EPPSE findings on         `what works' in raising         quality (2013, p 15, S2) in the context of a &#163;5 billion-a-year         expenditure in early education         through 525,000 additional childcare places, cumulatively benefitting         1.1 million children         since 2004, in addition to 2,599 new Children's Centres, 1,279 new         Neighbourhood         Nurseries (realised in 2010), tax credits and employer supported         childcare.
The document         sets out a new 10-year childcare plan and uses the EPPSE evidence as a         building block.
EPPSE evidence underpins the decision in 2010 to extend free         entitlement to the poorest         40% (some 260,000) of two-year-olds in 2014 (S3).
Social justice, Success Against the Odds and the Home Learning           Environment: Many recent major       policy reviews on poverty and life chances (e.g.
Field, S4 and       Allen, S5) have used EPPSE       evidence to promote policies to improve the prospects of disadvantaged       children through early       interventions.
Field quotes the now epigrammatic EPPSE finding that "What       parents do is more       important than who parents are".
The Government cites EPPSE evidence (R1)       in its response (S7       p 62) to these reviews.
Instrumental impact: Practice: EPPSE findings have been used       extensively to support       developments in initial teacher and practitioner training, especially in       maths and literacy.
Edexcel in       its A2 Psychology textbook (2009) uses EPPSE to demonstrate how research       is applied to the real       world.
The most significant impact has been on the early years curriculum,       pedagogy and the       development of the workforce.
Pre-school quality: EPPSE clearly identifies aspects of       pre-school quality that relate to child       outcomes leading to profound impacts on practice.
The ECERS-E scale,       developed by EPPSE PIs       at the IOE (R5), is used for quality assurance by approximately 70       English LAs, evidenced by the       National ECERS network.
Field's 2010 Government-commissioned report (S4)       on child poverty       recommends its national implementation and the NAO (2012, p 32, S1)       reported the scales were       the third most useful measure used by LAs to assess quality, with 92% of       LAs finding it very or       fairly useful.
ECERS-E is also used by countless pre-schools for       self-assessment and CPD.
More       than 1,000 UK teachers have been trained in its use.
Practitioner forums       discuss the scale's utility       and sales have exceeded 25,000 copies since 2008.
It has been translated       into many languages.
Advisers to the US Government (Snow and Van Hemel) explored the use of the       ECERS-E in their       2008 report: Early Childhood Assessment: Why, What, and How?
Effective early years curriculum and pedagogy: The EPPSE       case studies of `effective' pre-schools       have had an extensive impact on practice.
Findings underpinned the       original Early Years       Foundation Stage (EYFS, 2008) and its revision in 2012 (R2, R3).
Tickell's independent review of       the EYFS (S7) discussed the role of the family and references       EPPSE: "Good quality early years       provision has the next largest impact on children's development by the age       of 5.
The evidence       strongly shows that this is particularly important for disadvantaged       children... this good practice       must continue".
When the Government announced the expansion of Teach First       into the early       years EPPSE was the only research cited in the press release.
Many       practices identified by       EPPSE are now taken for granted as `best practice' in the UK and abroad.
The term `sustained       shared thinking' (SST), identified in the EPPSE case studies, is now part       of the everyday language       of early pedagogy.
An Amazon search in June, 2013 reveals 179 books       containing the phrase (up       from 21 in 2008), including National Vocational Qualification (NVQ)       revision guides, training       materials for EY practitioners, EYFS guidance and advanced textbooks.
Materials to support SST       have been developed by organisations such as Early Education, Montessori,       TES online and the       British Association for Early Childhood Education.
Improving the workforce: Findings about staff       qualifications and quality have been used extensively       to improve the quality of the workforce.
HMT cites EPPSE evidence in       justifying the &#163;125m       Transformation Fund that sought to "ensure that all full daycare settings       are led by a graduate       qualified early years professional ... and there will be a single       qualification framework and greater       opportunities for existing workers to increase their skills".
The       independent Nutbrown review (2012       S8) on qualifications made extensive reference to EPPSE to justify       changes to the current       qualification framework.
Evidence from EPPSE was also used in 2013 by the       Deputy Prime       Minister and early years organisations to counter Ministerial proposals to       alter adult-child ratios in       early childhood provision.
EPPSE has also influenced CPD.
EPPSE has the       most downloaded       research web pages on the IOE website, the DFE has produced five `Research       Bites' on EPPSE       circulated to primary schools in England, and CUREE's evidence-informed       information for teachers       also cites EPPSE.
Conceptual impact: EPPSE has raised the nation's awareness and       understanding of the       importance of early years education.
The research has regular press       coverage in national and       professional journals and the broadcast media, and its findings form an       essential part of the debate       about home (S9) and pre-school effects.
International impact: The international reach is exemplified in       UNESCO (2008): The contribution         of early childhood education to a sustainable society (S10),       Australia's first national Early Years       Learning Framework (2009 S11) and Brazil's national guidelines for       early years education       published in 2006 which led to national reforms from 2008 onwards (S12).
The IOE's PIs are in       demand globally as experts on early childhood; they have advised       Ministers, practitioners and       academics in many countries including Australia, Eire, South Korea, China       and Brazil.
