     Principal beneficiaries: Minority ethnic children across Myanmar       are likely to benefit most from Lall's work.
International aid agencies       have also gained from the research as it has enabled them to target their       education spending more effectively.
Ultimately, the people of Myanmar       stand to benefit from her research too because the discussions that she       initiated &#8212; and led -- between representatives of ethnic armed group       education departments and a Ministry of Education team are believed to       have furthered the overall peace and reconciliation process.
Academics       have also benefited from research methods training that she has been       providing in Myanmar.
Dates of benefit: The impact of Lall's       research on the Mon and Karen education systems began to be felt       immediately after the publication of her 2012 study.
The benefits of her       training in research methods have been accumulating since 2005.
Reach and significance: It is difficult to estimate the number of       children who are likely to be affected by her research as the precise       number of school-aged children in minority ethnic communities is not       known.
No census has been carried out in Myanmar for more than 30 years.
However, as UNICEF believes that Myanmar has a child population of 18       million2 and ethnic minorities are thought to make up a third of that         group this would suggest that up to six million children should benefit         in some way from Lall's work.
Her research is being considered at the         very highest levels of Myanmar policy-making &#8212; a fact that was         underlined by an invitation to her to brief the Minister in charge of         national peace negotiations.
Lall can therefore point to the         instrumental impact3 (influencing policy and/or practice) of her           work.
She has also had two other forms of impact: conceptual           (enhancing general understanding and informing debate) and capacity           building.
Pathways to impact: The 2012 study paved the way for further       discussions with Myanmar government representatives, Mon education       officials and international donor organisations.
National level: After the study was completed, Lall had a       meeting with the head of the Ministry of Education's Comprehensive       Education Sector Review team, which is leading the national reform       process.
At this meeting Lall presented her with a copy of the report (R2).
In June 2013, Lall was also asked to meet and brief a senior Myanmar       Minister, U Aung Min, on ethnic education issues.
This was also extremely       significant as U Aung Min, Minister of the President's Office, is leading       the peace negotiations with the non-state armed groups.
Mon education: Lall and South were invited to advise the       Mon National Education Committee following the publication of their       report.
This committee is the education arm of the Mon people's armed       group, the New Mon State Party, who are in peace talks with the Myanmar       government.
The researchers provided guidance on how the Mon education       system could be expanded and how it could link in more &#8212; through mixed       schools &#8212; with the government system.
They also offered advice on the       school curriculum and teacher training.
International donors: Lall was also asked to provide advice       for AusAID, the largest donor to Myanmar's education sector.
AusAID found       her advice so useful that it awarded her a two-year consultancy contract       amounting to almost AU$125,000 (see Indicative Funding).
Instrumental impact: National level: As the       Ministry of Education review team had never met with any ethnic education       department previously, Lall recommended that workshops be held to bring       the government side face to face with representatives of the ethnic school       sectors.
The first two workshops were held in March and June 2013 in       Yangon (formerly Rangoon).
They were led by Lall and funded by AusAID.
The       first workshop (March 1) was for ethnic education representatives but the       second one (June 24 to 27), which focused on mother-tongue issues, was       attended by the Ministry's review team.
This second workshop generated       intensive discussions that linked education issues with the peace process       and continued the debates around separate schooling, devolution and       decentralisation.
Representatives of the Mon, Karen, Karenni, Shan,       Kachin, Chin and Rakhine states and Sagain Region took part.
There were       also representatives from the Myanmar NGO, Shalom, which has been involved       in ethnic education for many years.
The workshop was held behind closed       doors to allow for discussion of some sensitive and difficult topics.
This       event was seen as a remarkable breakthrough (testimony below) which       reflected the confidence that ethnic groups and the Ministry's team have       in Lall.
As a result of the workshops' success, Shalom asked Lall in June       2013 to facilitate a third workshop for education officials from the Mon,       Karen, Karenni, Shan and Kachin non-state armed groups.
Mon testimony: The significance of Lall's work has been       confirmed by the most senior official of the Mon National Education       Committee &#8212; see impact source S1.
She said that Lall's 2012 report       helped her organisation to review its policies.
It had also brought the       mother-tongue debate to the national level.
"We feel that the research is       not only informing the education reform process but also helping establish       the parameters for the role of education in the peace process", the Mon       official added.
Influence on Australian policy: The First Secretary (S2)       in the Australian Embassy in Yangon has said that Lall and South's study (R2)       helped to deepen AusAID officials' understanding of ethnic education       issues in Myanmar.
The embassy official added that Lall's subsequent       advice had improved the effectiveness of the agency's education activities       and "thus had an impact on the Myanmar people".
However, the Australians       believe that Lall's biggest achievement has been in helping to bring       ethnic representatives into the national education reform discussion       through the two AusAID workshops.
These achieved their objective of       helping ethnic groups to identify common issues which could be passed to       the Ministry of Education review team.
"Not only has this strengthened the       CESR [education review] process but getting education policies right will       also have a major impact on the peace process which is moving forward in       parallel", the embassy official said.
Influence on UNICEF: The United Nations Children's Fund       recently indicated that it is minded to divert additional funding to Mon       State.
This extremely important decision was partly based on Lall and       South's research.
The amount of funding that Mon State will receive will       largely depend on an assessment exercise that the American University in       Washington DC is currently undertaking in collaboration with UNICEF and       the Myanmar government.
Lall is acting as a consultant to the team that is       leading this work.
UNICEF is also paying for an international       mother-tongue specialist to help underpin the work of the Ministry's       education review team.
That decision also stemmed in part from Lall and       South's report.
Donors' report: Their research has also fed into a report       published in April 2013 by Myanmar's Peace Donor Support Group &#8212; a network       of wealthy nations and international bodies that provides aid to areas of       the country worst-affected by years of conflict.
The education section of       this report (S3) quotes extensively from Lall and South's study (R2).
Influence on other governments: Lall also provides       research-based briefings on Myanmar for the US and Norwegian governments,       the German Ministry for Development (S4) and the Japanese Ministry       of Foreign Affairs.
In 2011, the Germans asked for her advice on education       organisations that they could fund.
Money was later given to those she had       nominated.
A senior Japanese government representative also confirmed that       Lall's briefings are valued.
Sasayama Takuya, Head of the South East Asia       division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said: "Her analysis is always       clear cut and very sharp.
On peace-making with ethnic minorities in       Myanmar, we are very much interested in what is going on" (S5&amp;S6).
Conceptual impact: Lall is regularly interviewed about political       and educational developments in Myanmar by media organisations such as the       BBC, Aljazeera and Sky News.
She has written six Op Ed articles on Myanmar       politics for the BBC News website since 2010 (S7) and has produced       briefings for the UK's influential Chatham House international affairs       think tank (R3).
Capacity building: Lall has provided training in research methods       for more than 150 Myanmar students and academics since 2005 &#8212; first at       universities and then at Myanmar Egress, a Yangon-based civil society       group pushing for further reforms.
The training was funded by the Konrad       Adenauer Foundation, the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Foundation and &#8212; most       recently &#8212; the European Union.
The EU project involves setting up a       research centre and training the staff.
Researchers that Lall has trained       are now producing briefing materials that are being presented to Myanmar's       president.
This work is funded by the Friedrich Naumann Foundation, which       co-holds the EU grant with Egress.
