     UK Policy on integration: The key role of intergroup contact (See       Sources 2 and 7)       Following riots in English cities in 2001, the Cantle Report highlighted       White and Asian communities living "parallel lives".
The Government's       Commission on Integration and Cohesion (2007) highlighted Hewstone's work       on intergroup contact ("the strongest evidence that the Commission had         of the benefits of such work"); Hewstone also served on the       technical committee of the Government's Citizenship Survey.
The importance       of intergroup contact is recognised in the development of Public Service       Agreement (PSA) 21, to "Build more cohesive, empowered and active       communities."
`Indicator 2' refers specifically to "the percentage of       people who have meaningful interactions with people from different       backgrounds" and highlights the need to "focus efforts upon facilitating       such interaction".
Hewstone's work "made a number of valuable         contributions to development of the then Government's strategy for         Community Cohesion."
Northern Ireland: The SEP and education policy (See Sources       1,3,5,6,9)       SEP, evaluated through Hewstone's work, promotes collaboration through       core curricular activity and mixed environments to enhance educational       outcomes and reconciliation (involving 130 schools and 16,000 pupils).
SEP       was supported in manifestos of four of the main political parties in the       2011 NI Assembly election; is identified as a priority in the Programme       for Government, 2012; is supported by the main Churches; and shared       solutions were included in area planning recommendations for NI school       reorganisation.
Hewstone's contribution is primarily in the design,       implementation and analysis of the large-scale quantitative evaluation.
This work is having a major impact on NI education policy.
The main       Protestant Churches in NI have publicly supported shared education, and       the Council for Catholic Maintained Schools has encouraged all its schools       to promote shared relationships with neighbouring Protestant schools.
In       2008, the Education Minister initiated a review of the Department's       Community Relations policy.
On the basis of evidence on intergroup contact       and SEP, presented by Hewstone's team, the Community Relations policy       (2010) contained a commitment to `encouraging greater sharing and       collaboration across and between all educational settings on a       cross-community basis'.
This policy impacts all children and young people       in NI.
After the conference on Shared Education (December, 2012), at which       Hewstone's team presented their results, the Chair of the Education       Committee stated "[y]our studies informed the decision to prioritize         shared education."
The SEP team has engaged with all the main political parties in NI.
After       the 2011 NI Assembly election a commitment that every pupil should have       some experience of shared education by 2015 was included in the Programme       for Government, and a Ministerial Advisory Group (MAG) on Shared Education       has been established.
Recommendations for area planning published by the       local authorities in 2012 have included a significant number of shared       education proposals.
In November 2011 the NI Executive released its Programme for Government.
Sharing Education is highlighted as a priority, and Shared Education has       been prioritised in the Programme for Government.
The MAG reported in       March 2013, and drawing extensively on the research evidence (5:6 p.       41-69) the report makes 17 recommendations which support the mainstreaming       of shared education in NI to ensure that it is placed at the `heart of         education policy and practice' (ibid, p.111), through, inter         alia, amendment to the Education Bill to place a statutory duty on       the Department of Education, and the new Education and Skills Authority,       to encourage and facilitate shared education; revision of the common       funding formula to include a `shared education premium'; a change in       legislation to place a statutory duty on schools to comply with Section 75       of the NI Act; and support for teachers in the delivery of shared       education (ibid, p.112-124).
In May 2013 the Office of the First       and Deputy First Minister announced a package of reforms for NI.
Reflecting the MAG recommendations, the package included a commitment to       start work within in next 5 years on building 10 `shared education'       campuses in NI.
This is likely to offer the opportunity for the shared       education experience to around 50 schools and 20,000 pupils.
International impact of SEP work (See Source 4)       SEP is now (via UNICEF, NGOs, and senior officials from the Ministry of       Education in Macedonia), impacting 6 Albanian and Macedonian schools in       ethnically mixed municipalities.
60 additional schools are involved in a       preparatory programme.
Media impact (See Source 10)       Hewstone has regularly presented his work via the media.
For example, his       work on merging ethnically diverse schools in Oldham featured in BBC Newsnight       (2011), with a longer interview on BBC World; his work on intergroup       contact was featured in BBC Radio 4's All in the Mind (2012).
