     Context: In 2002, a report by IOE academics for the Deputy Prime       Minister's Social Exclusion Unit1 concluded: "The longstanding         neglect of the education of children and young people in care has had an         extremely negative effect on their life chances and involved enormous         costs to them and to society as a whole.
Reversing these effects will         require substantial investment and fundamental changes in attitudes."
In         2013, their life chances, though still straitened, are gradually         improving.
IOE research has demonstrably helped prompt and underpin the         needed changes in attitudes, policy and investment.
Dates of impact: 2008-13, with particular impact at the start and       the end of the period, with new legislation taking effect or currently       going through Parliament.
Principal beneficiaries: care-leavers, children in care and wider       society.
Reach and significance: This research has led directly to changes       in the law in England and Wales to increase the financial support for       young people from care backgrounds in HE.
This is bolstered by better       systems in FHE and LAs for helping these young people to stay in       education.
Most of By Degrees' 43 recommendations to central and       local government and HEIs have become policy.
This means that the 6-8,000       19-year-olds every year who have been in care face fewer barriers to       continuing their education, and some 500 of them &#8212; who do go on to HE -- have a better chance of completing their degrees.
Support for the 89,000       children in care, through Virtual Heads in every LA, is to become law in       2013, as explained below.
Impact through legislation: Extra bursary: Between       2003 and 2012 the proportion of care-leavers in England in HE at age 19       rose from an estimated 1% to 7% (DfE figures).
Jackson's work was the       first research demonstrating what is needed to raise participation and the       only one cited in this context in the Children and Young Persons Act         2008, which amended section 23C of the Children Act 1989 by       requiring local authorities to pay a one-off additional bursary to       care-leavers of 18 and over who take a course of HE.
The memorandum on       this regulation change explains that the bursary should be &#163;2,000 and       makes explicit the link between the research and the policy change: "The       amount is based on evidence [R3] that former relevant children       finish higher education with an average of &#163;2,000 more debt than their       peers."
The document's accompanying briefing paper adds that the research       by Jackson and her colleagues "suggests that the more support, including       financial, that former relevant children had the greater their chances of       success".
The regulation took effect in September 2009 but care-leavers       who started HE a year earlier were also entitled to the bursary.
A       companion Memorandum for Wales, which introduced the same bursary       in the 2010-11 academic year, also makes it clear that the IOE study       provided the rationale for the grant (S1 and S2).
The       findings and recommendations, combined with the power of the evidence       presented in an earlier and ongoing intensive dissemination programme,       also directly resulted in a tick box on the UCAS form from 2008 to       identify these young people for receipt of extra funds and advice.
For       example, the study pointed out that students in receipt of inadequate       support from their LA often took on too much paid work, which conflicted       with their academic demands.
In a 2013 survey for Buttle UK, 41% of 279       students from care interviewed said they were influenced by the financial       support available (S3).
LA support until age 25: The 2008 Act also mandated support       from a personal adviser until the age of 25 [R1] and a designated       teacher in all maintained schools responsible for promoting the education       of children in care (By Degrees recommendations).
Jackson and       colleagues can take considerable credit for such regulations.
Brian       Roberts, former head of Peterborough's Virtual School, and chair of the       English Advisory Committee of the Fostering Network, said By Degrees       is one of the most widely read "items of evidence" used in promoting the       educational achievement of children in care (S4).
His conversations       with Ministers and MPs, in the coalition and the previous Labour       government, had shown they were able to quote from the findings.
"The       research was central to changes in national legislation that made the       educational achievement of children in the care system a statutory       priority for local authorities," he confirmed.
Virtual schools: The virtual school concept &#8212; positively       evaluated [R5] by Jackson and researchers from Bristol, and already       adopted voluntarily by most LAs, is to be mandated through the 2013       Children &amp; Families Bill.
Every LA will have to appoint a Virtual       School Head responsible for the educational achievement of children in       care.
As the cut-off date for REF impact approached, seven charities,       including Barnardo's and the National Children's Bureau, were campaigning       for the Virtual Head's duties to extend to young people up to age 25,       rather than 18, citing Jackson's evaluation.
This change was being pressed       in the House of Lords by the Earl of Listowel in advance of a second       reading in the autumn.
Buttle Quality Mark: The BQM &#8212; based on a By Degrees       recommendation and supported by care charity Buttle (S6) &#8212; has been       earned by 88 HEIs in the UK since 2006 &#8212; 56% of all HEIs, including 100%       in Wales.
Praised by KPMG Foundation in an evaluation of the scheme (S3)       as "one of the key success stories for children leaving care", it is       awarded to institutions that can demonstrate that they have a sufficiently       robust strategy in place to support students from a care background.
These       universities express their commitment in slightly different ways but       Cardiff, like many other HEIs, offers care-leavers an extra bursary and       provides a named mentor for each student to discuss any concerns they       have.
Care-leavers are also guaranteed a hall of residence place in their       first year (another By Degrees recommendation).
BQM HEIs offer       financial support packages worth between &#163;100 and &#163;6,000 a year &#8212; &#163;1,400 a       year per student on average.
Royal Holloway, University of London offers       any student who is a care-leaver free accommodation for 365 days a year       (worth &#163;6,000).
At Leeds University and other HEIs with the award, student       volunteers help young people in care with revision and college       applications.
Since 2011 the award has also been earned by more than 40 FE       colleges and in 2012 an All Party Parliamentary Group Inquiry (S5)       recommended that the BQM be rolled out nationally to all FHE providers.
The evaluation reported strong support from all key strategic bodies in       all four UK nations.
Local authorities' care-leaver policies: The study's findings have       informed many LA policy documents and have triggered changes in practice,       in addition to those cited above.
The Bristol leaving care team became the       first to employ a teacher, as recommended in Jackson's research &#8212; which       emphasised the importance of raising educational aspirations.
More than       110 LAs have signed up to the Government's Care-leavers Charter, launched       in 2012, pledging they will support these young people until they reach 25       (as recommended in By Degrees).
Impact in Europe: By Degrees paved the way for YiPPEE (R1),       which is now beginning to influence policy thinking across Europe.
For       example, an EC policy review (S8), based on YiPPEE and other EU       projects, highlights the need to overcome the difficulties it documented,       such as the financial pressures that force many care-leavers to choose a       low-level job over HE.
The review recommends that European legislation       follows the lead set by England in the wake of Jackson's earlier research,       and defines `care' for children in public care and on welfare as       `educationally oriented'.
In line with YiPPEE's evidence, it also says       schools and welfare agencies should co-operate over efforts to encourage       more young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to stay on in education.
In the five YiPPEE countries, researchers have been asked to present the       results to politicians, social workers and the public and have given radio       and press interviews.
Interest is also growing in non-YiPPEE European       countries.
In 2013, Jackson was invited to speak about her research in       Norway and Germany.
YiPPEE researchers proposed and contributed five       papers to a special issue of the European Journal of Social Work,       the first articles in that publication on the topic of young people from       care backgrounds and HE (February 2013).
This is important in relation to       the YiPPEE finding that a factor in the poor attainment of children in       public care is the low priority given by social workers to educational       matters.
In Sweden, Skolfam (School Focus in Foster Care), inspired by       Jackson's work, is taking hold, first in Helsingborg in 2005, and since       2008 in 10 other municipalities.
By 2012, 100% of young people from four       cohorts of Skolfam-children in Helsingborg (10 in all) had passed the       high school entrance exam, exceeding the percentage for all Swedish       children of 87%.
In Catalonia, Spain, researchers are working with two       regional ministries to continue YiPPEE's data collection for a further       four years and a pilot programme to support children in care has begun.
Additionally, thanks to YiPPEE, banks in Catalonia have provided grants to       enable young people from care backgrounds to continue studying.
