     Reach and significance: Research by St James-Roberts, conducted       over several decades, has helped to achieve a paradigm shift in the       understanding and treatment of infant colic, crying and sleep problems.
It       has informed millions of parents and has paved the way for the development       of interventions to help families and substantially reduce governments'       health costs.
It is also contributing to the work of others designed to       prevent shaken baby syndrome.
Principal beneficiaries and dates: Parents around the world who       visit authoritative websites, clinics or healthcare professionals to seek       information on infant crying or sleeping.
Healthcare and medical       professionals have benefited too as they now have more reliable evidence       to offer parents.
The impact began before 2008 and continues to accumulate       as more and more guides for parents and guidelines for professionals cite       St James-Roberts's research.
Impact on policy and practice: Colicky crying: His work       has added to evidence that different parenting approaches have little       effect on colicky crying, which is common in early infancy.
This has       provided reassurance that parents are not to blame for this type of infant       crying.
In the UK, this evidence has resulted in a move towards health       services that focus on providing parents with information and practical       support in managing infant crying.
For example the wording of the     National Institute for Health Research's 2012 call for research to       underpin an intervention package for parents of infants who cry       excessively shows the influence of this research, by focusing directly on       supporting parents rather than trying to treat an infant presumed to be       unwell (S2).
In 2012, St James-Roberts was also invited by the Rome       Foundation, a charity concerned with Functional Gastrointestinal (GI)       Disorders, to join the expert panel that is developing international       guidelines for clinicians diagnosing paediatric GI disorders.
Shaken baby syndrome: Findings from his research form part       of the body of work that is helping to combat this syndrome.
The Period Of       Purple Crying website, sponsored by the US National Center on Shaken Baby       Syndrome, includes three Infant Sleep pages by St James-Roberts (S3),       which have had more than 60,000 views since publication in October 2009.
One parent emailed: "You have no idea how difficult it is to find an       un-biased summary of ways to deal with night waking ...
It is very easy to       find information on how to execute the methods, but next to impossible to       find a backgrounder that simply describes the problem so that as a parent       you can assess the behaviour before deciding how to deal with it" (S11).
A paper St James-Roberts published in Child Abuse Review (S4)       also appears in the section on parent education and child abuse prevention       in the library of the US National Criminal Justice Reference Service.
The       reach of his research is enhanced by the citation of his work in A         Journalist's Guide to Shaken Baby Syndrome (S5).
This guide       is published by the US Department of Health and Human Services Centres for       Disease Control and Prevention.
The guide says: "The key here is that       crying is normal and is not the problem.
The problem is how       caregivers respond to a baby's cry."
Professional and public engagement: St James-Roberts works closely       with organisations that educate new parents about infant sleep and crying       issues &#8212; and the professionals who advise them.
For example, his 2012       guide for professionals and families (R5) is helping to underpin an       Institute of Health Visiting sleep campaign designed to update       practitioners (S6); it is recommended in the Institute's       practitioner training sessions, including those run jointly with NetMums.
NCT adviser: St James-Roberts has been a member of the       NCT's Research Advisory Panel since 2010.
Mary Newburn, NCT head of       research (S7), says: "Ian understands our commitment to being both       parent-centred and evidence-based.
We are using two questions on       persistent crying from his earlier research in our longitudinal study of       parents, as this is an aspect of parenting that causes considerable stress       and concern.
We ... feel it is invaluable to have his support, based on       his detailed empirical comparative research".
St James-Roberts is cited in       the NCT's information for health workers (S8) and its web articles       for parents and professionals.
Trusted websites: His findings also substantiate advice on       the most widely-trusted national and international websites, including       those of NHS Direct and Unicef (S9).
Leading commercial       organisations such as Mothercare also cite his research.
International reach: Articles both by St James-Roberts and       about his work are included in the Encyclopedia on Early Childhood         Development (S10).
Produced by Montreal University, the Encyclopedia       has been translated into French, Spanish and Portuguese and is presented       in three levels of language for different needs.
His work is also cited by       many parents' organisations and health websites in countries including the       US, Australia, Canada and Singapore, as well as the UK.
He is, for       example, an `expert panellist' on websites for new parents such as       babycentre.co.uk.
His advice for parents has been translated into many       languages, including French, Spanish, Romanian, Croatian and Turkish.
