     Principal beneficiaries: Stuart's work benefits all children       learning to read in English schools.
Dockrell's work benefits the 7-10% of children in England who have speech       and language       difficulties, their teachers and parents, policy-makers and commissioners       of services for such       children.
Together, their work benefits children whose language       development lags behind their       peers at the start of school.
Dates of impact: Impact was at its height in 2008-9, influencing       changes to the National Literacy       Strategy (NLS), and 2013, with the BCRP roll-out and the 2014 National       Curriculum's publication.
Reach and significance: IOE research on language and literacy has       improved educational policy       and practice, enhancing all three waves of provision: universal, targeted       and specialist, as       demonstrated below.
This body of work has had instrumental impact1         &#8212; underpinning national         guidelines and advice, and commercial tests and schemes; conceptual           impact &#8212; changing         accepted ideas about the nature of language learning needs; and capacity-building           impact &#8212;         informing ITE requirements and CPD core content.
It is helping to close         the learning gap in areas         of high social deprivation, where more than half of children start         nursery with delayed language.
Literacy &#8212; impact on policy and practice: Since the 1970s, the       place of phonics in the teaching       of early reading has been hotly contested.
Stuart has played a significant       role in establishing a       research-informed approach to phonics teaching for all children in       England.
The `simple view of       reading', which she espoused (R3), is embedded in the curriculum,       teacher education and Ofsted       guidance.
She has written and influenced many official, commercial and       third-sector teaching and       teacher training materials, as exemplified below.
Sir Jim Rose calls       Stuart an `unsung heroine of       literacy' (S1).
Rose report: Following her Tower Hamlets intervention       studies (R1), Stuart was asked to give oral       evidence to the Select Committee inquiry on early reading (2005), and to       advise on Jim Rose's       early reading review (2006).
She led in drafting an appendix that proposed       replacing the       Searchlights model with the `Simple View' (discussed in R3; also       see S1).
The Government       accepted all the Review's recommendations.
The National Literacy Strategy       (NLS) introduced the       `Simple View' to schools in 2007-8; it was also incorporated into ITE and       CPD courses.
Stuart       helped develop resources and training, including:             Letters and Sounds (DCSF 2007), a phonics teaching programme         distributed free to all primary         schools in England and still widely used;       Training for Primary National Strategy (PNS) literacy consultants on         language and reading         development.
These sessions, filmed and distributed throughout England         as a set of training         DVDs (2007), are also still used (e.g.
S8).
2014 Curriculum: Stuart helped ensure that the `Simple       View' formed the framework for the       teaching of reading in the final draft on 31 July 2013 (p4).
The DfE's       policy lead for English       confirms Stuart's essential role as expert consultant (S7): "The       papers she submitted to officials to       support her commentary were invaluable in creating a robust rationale for       the reading curriculum,       and in developing officials' knowledge of the reading process, which in       turn informed advice to       Ministers.
Her work is highly respected and admired".
She played a key       role in:            Influencing the precise approach to systematic phonics;       Extending the `Simple View' to writing;       Influencing content on spoken language, vocabulary and spelling.
The Children's Printed Word Database (R4) was used       in developing national curricula and       assessments in England including: a) the 2007 NLS framework, b) the       spelling appendix for the       2014 English Curriculum and c) the DFE's Year 1 Phonics Screening Check       introduced in 2012.
Stuart helped design the check and, with Professor Rhona Stainthorp of       Reading University,       developed a training DVD for teachers.
In the commercial world, she helped       design a reading test       making use of the database, published by GL Assessment in 2012.
The first       normative test       diagnosing different types of word reading problem, it garnered more than       &#163;40,000 in sales by July       31, 2013.
Stuart ran training sessions on its use with Ark and University       of Chester Academies.
Dyslexia: Stuart was an expert adviser on Rose's 2008       Dyslexia investigation.
Her annex on the       roles, responsibilities and training of specialist dyslexia teachers       helped Rose persuade the       Government to commission new dyslexia training materials for the National       Strategies (S1).
Stuart       and Rea Reason of the University of Manchester provided the content of the       resulting DfE training       resource (2011, S4), which situated dyslexia along the continuum       of normal development and       embedded the `Simple View' in a whole-school approach.
Better communication &#8212; impact on policy and practice: Dockrell's       work has had a well-recognised       and "highly significant" impact on policy and practice (S9),       influencing views and       attitudes across the speech, language and communication needs landscape       and promoting the       role of research in best practice (S5).
Her findings on the       damaging effect of speech and language       difficulties on children's achievement and the lack of support they and       their teachers received (e.g.
R6) helped to persuade the Government to commission the influential       Bercow Review and       informed its findings and recommendations (2008, S3, e.g.
p32), as       National Communication       Champion Jean Gross &#8212; appointed in the wake of Bercow &#8212; attests.
She also       played a personal       role in triggering the review, which was commissioned in the wake of a       meeting between Dockrell,       Afasic's CEO, a parent and Ed Balls, then Economic Secretary to the       Treasury (S5).
The Government's response to Bercow was an action plan in 2008, which       launched the Better           Communication Research Programme (BCRP) (G4).
Dockrell's research helped underpin all its       recommendations &#8212; published in 2012 and accepted by the Government &#8212; but       most explicitly those       calling for changes to the way children are categorised and for       individualised provision for each       child built around family needs (R5).
Education Minister Edward       Timpson, highlighting the BCRP,       told the Commons (Hansard 19/06/13) that the 2013 Children and       Families Bill would replace the       current system of School Action and School Action Plus with new guidance       for schools to "ensure       that they identify children with SEN more accurately".
Another important       output of BCRP was the       Communication Supporting Classrooms Observation Tool.
Dockrell led       in developing this research-informed       web resource to help schools ensure they have classrooms which support the       development of language and communication skills (S6).
In Lewisham,       where the tool was piloted,       the Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) team used it to train teachers.
They       found it offered a       useful conceptual framework for considering the classroom environment.
It       is hosted on the       Communication Trust website, along with the BCRP What Works       database, on which Dockrell       advises.
The database was developed as a direct result of Dockrell's BCRP       study examining       commonly used interventions to support children's language (R5),       and had 22,700 visitors between       April and 31 July 2013 (S10).
The 19 BCRP research papers,       published on a bespoke DfE website       in December 2012, clocked up 17,125 downloads in four months, including       3,492 for Dockrell's       thematic report.
Talking Time: Dockrell and Stuart helped shape, design and       disseminate the high-impact Every       Child a Talker (ECAT) programme (2008) and teaching materials for early       years, adopted in all 152       LAs in England (S9).
Informed by their `Talking Time' resource and       research, (R2), it "led to very       large reductions in the number of children with language delay in the       settings which took part",       Gross confirms.
She adds: "The ECAT programme provided a model of how to       make change       happen on a large scale".
Talking Time itself is one of only five       universal interventions included on       the BCRP What Works database.
The Database, Talking Time and the Tool all       had a direct       influence on the Communication Trust's Talk of the Town programme to help       children and young       people with SLCN in disadvantaged areas (S10).
