     Principal beneficiaries: Education professionals and policy-makers       at various levels have benefited from the ideas and practical strategies       outlined in the work of Hodgson and Spours.
Many of these have then       impacted on young people in 14-19 education and training in England and       Wales through better progression routes, guidance systems and improved       programmes of study.
Dates of benefit: From before 2008 to the present day.
Reach and significance: The researchers have played an important       role in shaping political and professional thinking on 14-19 education and       training &#8212; not only in England and Wales but as far afield as Qatar.
They       have influenced Labour party and union policies, and provision in local       authorities, colleges and schools.
They have also helped to design       national baccalaureate courses and qualifications frameworks.
They have       therefore made a range of `instrumental' impacts1 (influence on         policy/practice).
They have also achieved significant `conceptual'         impacts (informing debate).
Conceptual impact: Public engagement: Hodgson and       Spours have made a major contribution to 14-19 debates since the 1990s by       writing about their research for many specialist and mainstream magazines       and newspapers, and giving interviews to high-profile radio and television       programmes.
They have argued consistently and effectively for a unified       and inclusive 14-19 education and training system that meets the needs of       every learner.
Spours has written five articles for the Guardian       alone since 2000 (three co-written with Hodgson).
His most recent piece       (see impact source S1), co-written with Neal Lawson of the Compass       think tank, attracted more than 100 responses &#8212; including one from the       High Master of Manchester Grammar School.
Spours also edited Compass's       2011 e-book, Education for the Good Society, and spoke at its       Westminster launch.
More than 150 people attended this event, including       Stephen Twigg, the then Shadow Education Secretary.
Conference and seminars: Hodgson and Spours have given       around 100 presentations to audiences beyond the research community &#8212; in       the UK and abroad &#8212; since 2008.
The IOE Centre for post-14 Research and       Innovation, which they jointly direct, organises events for practitioners       and policy-makers, as well as researchers.
Elizabeth Truss MP has twice       attended one of the Centre's seminars, once shortly before becoming       schools minister in 2012 and then again in March 2013.
The Centre also       supports the London Regional Post-14 Network, which reaches policy-makers       and practitioners through its conferences and seminars.
The Centre's open       lecture series has been offered annually to the public for 20 years.
Instrumental impact: Labour policy: Hodgson and       Spours strongly influenced the Tomlinson proposals for a 14-19 diploma       system (S2) &#8212; and although the Blair government rejected their       recommendations, senior Labour politicians remain open to their arguments.
Kevin Brennan, shadow minister for schools, invited them to brief him on       their proposals for a unified curriculum on May 22, 2012 (S3) and       some of their ideas were incorporated in the draft curriculum policy that       Labour issued the following month.
It states: "We therefore propose to       explore a modernised version of the approach pioneered by the Tomlinson       Report".
Spours has since been invited to contribute to the David Blunkett       review of school collaboration arrangements.
He is also the organiser of       an inquiry into a new model of education, sponsored by Compass and funded       by the National Union of Teachers, which was launched in July 2013.
Select Committee: When Hodgson appeared before the       Education Select Committee in 2008 she argued for an extension of the       aims-based curriculum to older teenagers &#8212; particularly as the       participation age is to rise to 18.
The Committee endorsed this suggestion       in their subsequent report (S4): "We strongly recommend that an       overarching statement of aims for the National Curriculum &#8212; encompassing       the Early Years Foundation Stage, National Curriculum and 14-19 learners &#8212; be introduced, properly embedded in the content of the National       Curriculum, in order to provide it with a stronger sense of purpose,       continuity and coherence".
They also made it clear that Hodgson's       testimony had helped to clarify their thinking on this issue.
Wales: Huw Evans, Chair of the 2012 Review of       Qualifications for 14 to 19s in Wales, has said that Hodgson and Spours       had a significant influence on his board's thinking (S5).
A key       question that Evans kept in mind during the Review was one that the       researchers posed in their IOE professorial lecture in 2012: "Should       education reflect and promote the more equal and democratic society that       we want to build rather than reinforce its current inequalities and       divisions?"
He also said that their work had confirmed "our commitment to       developing an inclusive 14-19 framework for Wales.
This is to be achieved       within a Baccalaureate model providing a unified pathway post-16".
The       Welsh Government broadly accepted all of the Evans Review's       recommendations.
Local authorities and pan-authority bodies: Hodgson and       Spours are also advising LAs on 14+ Progression and Transition Boards       (PTBs) &#8212; a new type of collaborative body that they conceived and       designed.
It brings together schools, colleges and work-based learning       providers, employers, voluntary and community organisations, regeneration       agencies, higher education institutions and local authorities.
They are       currently academic partners for the London Councils' Young People's       Education and Skills Board and their ideas on 14+ PTBs are spreading       across the capital.
Two 14+ PTBs have been set up in North East       Lincolnshire and Luton and other local authorities are showing interest.
Qualifications and awards: Their Tomlinson work has       influenced examination boards' thinking.
The baccalaureate offered by AQA,       the largest of England's exam boards, is a case in point.
As a Guardian       article on the AQA Bac commented: "Three years after Tony Blair kicked the       Tomlinson diploma into the long grass, it is back in a new guise" (S6).
The AQA Bac is now offered by more than 200 centres.
From 2009-2011, the       researchers also helped the Sixth Form Colleges Association (SFCA) to       develop a baccalaureate &#8212; the SFBac Award &#8212; which recognises all-round       learning and achievement at levels 1, 2 and 3.
This involved working with       pilot institutions and producing research reports for SFCA to inform the       design and implementation of the award (S7).
Students: Young people in the 11 sixth-form colleges that       developed the SFBac now experience a broader post-16 curriculum and the       wider activities they undertake are being recognised.
Tens of thousands of       students also benefit from the new 14+ PTBs that support their progress       from school to work and HE.
Bristol students have also gained from their       institutions' collaboration with the IOE, and the Kingswood Partnership is       now seen as an example of best practice in 14-19 education and training (S8).
Teacher unions: Hodgson and Spours are working with the NUT       and the University and College Union on a long-term project examining       teacher and lecturer perceptions of 14-19 reforms.
The project's first       report was launched at a 2011 seminar involving both unions at which       Hodgson and Spours gave the keynote address.
The questionnaires they       designed with UCU and the NUT in 2011-12 on teachers' and lecturers' views       of 14-19 policy have underpinned campaigns in both organisations.
Overseas influence: Their research on unified systems has       now been carried into international work and they recently developed an       inclusive National Qualifications Framework for Qatar.
