     Principal beneficiaries and impact dates: Policy-makers, children,       parents and society.
MCS began yielding benefits before 2008 and they are       increasing each year.
Reach and significance: MCS surveys have built up a uniquely       detailed profile of the Millennium generation's diverse pathways through       early childhood.
The study is an exceptional resource for researchers, not       only in the UK but around the world.
It has also enabled policy-makers to       target resources and interventions more effectively.
MCS has achieved       significant instrumental impacts2 (i.e.
influencing policy/practice).
It has also had conceptual impacts (informing debates) and has helped to         develop quantitative research expertise (capacity building impact).
IOE         academics who manage the MCS and analyse its data maintain strong links         with Westminster and devolved administration departments.
Some of the         following impacts stem from these close relationships.
Instrumental impact: Breastfeeding: The MCS-based       research that found breastfeeding to be associated with lower       hospitalisation rates for respiratory infections and child diarrhoea has       been widely cited by health organisations, most notably in the National       Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance on Maternal and       Child Nutrition (see impact source S1) and other advice       from the Department of Health (S2).
The finding is highlighted in       nutrition guidelines and breastfeeding strategy documents published by       many UK primary care trusts and in a breastfeeding information pack for       children's centres issued in 2009 by the NCT (formerly the National       Childbirth Trust), the UK's biggest parenting charity.
The study is also       cited by the British Dietetic Association in its 2013 policy statement on       `Complementary Feeding: Introduction of solid food to an Infant's Diet'.
It has influenced health policies outside the UK too.
The research has       helped to underpin the South Australian government's policy on       breastfeeding.
It is also referred to in documents issued by Unicef UK on       behalf of the Baby Friendly Initiative, a worldwide programme of the World       Health Organization and Unicef which has been implemented in 134       countries.
Immunisation: The findings from MCS-based research have       been used to inform both national and local policies on immunisation       training programmes and practice.
The research by Pearce et al (R4)       was referred to in the 2009 NICE guidelines on how to reduce differences       in the uptake of immunisations among children and young people (S3).
This authoritative guidance is for NHS and other professionals who work in       children's services, local authorities, education and the wider public,       private, voluntary and community sectors.
Another important health       education document that refers to MCS-based research on childhood       immunisation was published by the King's Fund, the influential healthcare       charity (S4).
Overweight/obesity: The MCS team's finding that 22% of       Welsh three-year-olds were overweight and just over 5 per cent are obese       has had a significant impact.
In January 2010, the Assembly Government in       Cardiff launched the `All Wales obesity pathway' document &#8212; partly in       response to this MCS finding.
According to Children in Wales, a national       umbrella organisation funded by the Assembly Government, the obesity       prevention document was produced "further to evidence showing the       proportion of adults and children who are not maintaining a healthy body       weight is increasing".
It then referred to the MCS obesity data (S5).
Health boards in Wales now use the pathway document as a tool to review       local policies, services and cross-departmental multi-agency activity for       children and adults.
Analyses of MCS data have also influenced the       Scottish government's policy on childhood overweight and obesity (S6).
In England, the National Obesity Observatory has made extensive use of MCS       evidence.
Its 2011 report, Obesity and Mental Health, says that MCS       findings "act as a valuable reminder of how early relationships between       obesity and well-being can emerge, and the need for public, family and       individual level interventions for children".
This organisation aims to       offer a single point of contact for trusted information on evidence and       research and works closely with policy-makers and practitioners involved       in obesity and related issues.
Wider policy influence: The MCS has informed policy thinking     on not only health but also child development, social mobility, poverty and     many other topics.
There are countless references to the study in central     and local government policy documents.
The governments of Wales, Scotland     and Northern Ireland have also drawn heavily on MCS data.
For example, an     MCS analysis that the Northern Ireland Executive commissioned from CLS     researchers has played a key role in the development of Stormont's child     poverty strategy (R5 &amp; S7).
David Willetts, Minister of     State for Universities and Science, has also referred on several occasions     to the important role that the study plays in Westminster policy thinking.
In 2010 he acknowledged that the MCS was "helping us assess what works when     it comes to early-years interventions" (S8).
A year later he told an     audience at the British Academy in London: "... when you read stories about     how effective early intervention actually is or about the effects on a child     of different patterns of parental work, they are likely to draw on analysis     of the millennium birth cohort" (S9).
International influence: The MCS has not only influenced       health-related policies in other countries, it has also caused some       nations to set up their own longitudinal surveys.
The study has, for       example, inspired similar projects in Ireland, New Zealand and France.
The       importance of the IOE researchers' role in this respect has been confirmed       by not only James Williams (see Quality Indicator comment) but by       Professor Alan Hayes, Director of the Australian Institute of Family       Studies.
Professor Hayes said that the IOE's MCS team had "provided       leadership with recent birth cohort studies in several countries, and have       given particularly valuable support in the development of Growing Up In       Australia: The Longitudinal Study of Australian Children" (S10).
Conceptual impact: The study has also helped to shape public       debate on family issues and marriage as well as poverty, education, social       mobility and, of course, health.
Many pressure group and think tank       reports (e.g.
S11) cite the MCS or research based on its data, and       even the Primate of All Ireland (S12) has referred to MCS       findings.
Capacity building impact: The IOE's workshops on MCS offer       training to research students, statisticians and data analysts from UK and       overseas universities, and many other organisations.
Between January 1,       2008 and July 31, 2013 these workshops attracted 200 participants.
More       than two thirds were researchers at UK universities.
Most of the others       work for national and local government, public bodies, the third sector       and think tanks.
The number of users downloading MCS datasets has been       climbing year by year.
In 2008, 145 researchers downloaded the study's       datasets but in 2012 that total rose to 267.
