 The treatments that Fairburn and colleagues developed have had a marked and international impact on clinical practice, both directly and indirectly.
In 2004 CBT-BN was strongly endorsed in the NICE guideline on the treatment of the eating disorders.
It recommended that "All patients with bulimia nervosa should receive cognitive behaviour therapy".
This recommendation was graded "A".
It was the first time NICE had ever strongly endorsed a psychological treatment (for any disorder).
This guideline remains in force.
Other countries' clinical guidelines also recommend CBT-BN (e.g.
USA, Germany, Australia, Norway, Spain).
A recent systematic review endorsed CBT as the first-line therapy (Hay P, Int J Eating Disord, 2013:46:462-469).
It is too early yet for published guidelines to include CBT-E, but it has been strongly endorsed in Italian guidelines appearing in Autumn 2013, and in other guidelines currently in preparation.
It can be estimated that 96,500 people in England and Wales alone could be cured of BN if they received a course of CBT-BN.
This is based upon the evidence (partly from Fairburn's epidemiological research) that 2% of the female population between age 15 and 40 (9.65 million women; Office for National Statistics 2011 data) meet criteria for the disorder, and with a conservative complete response rate [from intention to treat analysis] of 50%.
The number who could benefit across the whole UK, or from CBT-E applied to all eating disorders, would be considerably larger.
Fairburn's guide for clinicians as to the implementation of CBT-E (Fairburn CG.
Cognitive Behavior Therapy and Eating Disorders.
Guilford Press, New York, 2008.)
has sold over 9,000 copies and has been translated into German, Italian, Japanese and Spanish.
Fairburn has given over 150 two-day workshops worldwide to train therapists in CBT-BN and CBT-E.
He has also provided year-long supervision for clinical teams in Denmark, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, and the United States, in addition to many across the UK.
In 2012 Fairburn was approached by the Health Service Executive of Ireland asking if he would train all their eating disorder services and clinicians in both CBT-E and guided self-help.
A programme is now underway, training all eating disorder clinicians (60-100 therapists) across Ireland over a period of 8 months.
No such dissemination of a psychological treatment has ever been attempted before.
It is a prelude to Fairburn's current work, which is developing and disseminating global training of therapists via web-based approaches.
The assessment measures developed by Fairburn and Cooper (EDE and EDE-Q) are used in the great majority of research studies of eating disorders, and have been translated into many languages (e.g.
Chinese, German, Spanish, Greek, Norwegian, Fijian).
The EDE is `widely considered the gold standard for the assessment of eating disorders' (Aardoom et al, Eating Behaviors, 2012: 13: 305-309).
Fairburn's book (Overcoming Binge Eating, Guilford Press, New York, 1995; 2nd edition published 25 July 2013) for use in guided self-help, based upon his research, has sold over 100,000 copies despite no advertising, including 23,000 since 2008.
It is primarily recommended by clinicians.
It can be prescribed as part of the NHS bibliotherapy scheme launched in June 2013 (http://www.overcoming.co.uk/single.htm?ipg=6320).
It is available in many languages.
Reflecting the impact of his work, Fairburn was awarded the Outstanding Researcher Award from the Academy for Eating Disorders in 2004, and the Beck Prize from the Academy for Cognitive Therapy in 2011.
