     Principal beneficiaries: Children with one of the screened-for       conditions have gained most       because their health needs are likely to be assessed more accurately and       quickly than in the past.
Parents of newborns have benefited too because they have been treated in a       more considerate       manner.
Arguably, there is also a substantial financial saving for the NHS       as the IOE team's work       has reduced the likelihood of costly medical treatment and legal cases       resulting from mistakes in       the screening process.
Dates of impact: The benefits have been       felt throughout the REF period       (2008-13) and are accumulating year-on-year.
Reach and significance: The IOE team have persuaded policy makers,       practitioners and parents       to help them translate their research into better evidence-based policy       and practice.
In doing so,       they have improved the quality of information resources and given parents       a bigger input into the       screening process.
They have also helped to ensure a higher quality of       life for many children with       the screened-for conditions, not only in the UK but around the world.
They       have had three forms of       impact1: instrumental (influencing policy /practice), conceptual         (enhancing general understanding         and informing debate) and capacity-building.
How the impact was achieved: The immediate impact of the IOE       team's work was on the       UKNSPC.
As the Centre's parent support research director, Oliver directly       influenced the       implementation of national policy.
The parents' leaflets and information       for health professionals that       the IOE researchers produced were distributed through regional antenatal       and child health       screening co-ordinators, public health directors, heads of midwifery,       health visitors, laboratory       directors and child health record departments.
This process benefited from       the researchers'       inclusive approach.
Not only did those involved ensure that the materials       were appropriate, they       also encouraged their subsequent use.
The materials were also made       publicly available via the       UKNSPC website.
Their use was then promoted in articles that the       researchers wrote for voluntary       sector publications and practitioner journals.
For example, in 2005 they       co-authored an article for       the Royal College of Midwives magazine, describing the new standards and       policies (S1).
Practitioners and parents were invited to co-author several of these       articles to ensure they spoke       directly to these readerships.
Devolved administrations and overseas: Soon after the       UKNSPC was set up, its directors,       including Oliver, visited devolved government departments in Belfast,       Cardiff and Edinburgh to       engage them in its work.
In 2009, Oliver visited Edinburgh again to share       with Scottish policy-makers       the learning that had accrued since 2002.
The researchers also delivered       presentations on       their work to practitioners and policy-makers in Australia (e.g.
the       Victorian Health Promotion       Foundation, Melbourne, and Queensland Health, Brisbane) in order to       demonstrate how       stakeholders could be involved in evidence-informed policy-making.
Capacity building: In addition to designing training materials for       use by others (S2), the       researchers contributed to CPD for health professionals around the country       (e.g.
for neonatal       nurses in Bradford, screening co-ordinators in Oxford, counsellors in       Manchester and midwives at       hospitals in the East and South East of England).
Instrumental impact: Communication with parents:       Before 2005, parents were not provided with       impartial information on newborn screening.
By 2011-12, largely because of       the IOE team's work,       clear, unbiased information was available to the parents of the 810,000       babies screened and the       1,481 who needed further diagnostic tests.
It had been feared that if       parents were told that       screening could have disadvantages as well as advantages, many more would       choose not to have       their baby screened.
However, this has not happened.
Screening was       declined by the parents of       only 6 in 10,000 newborns in 2011-12 (S3).
Discussions with midwives: As the researchers recommended,       parents can now discuss blood spot       screening with midwives during pregnancy and immediately before the test.
This enables them to       make an informed choice.
At the time of the test, midwives explain the       various research and public       health uses of blood spots to mothers &#8212; an approach the IOE team       advocated.
The Supervisor of       Midwives (S4) for the East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation       Trust (one England's largest       hospital trusts, serving around 759,000 people) said that they had been       using the IOE researchers'       leaflets for five years.
"Having the leaflets makes it much easier for the       midwives to discuss       screening and for parents to understand the information about the range of       conditions tested, the       procedure itself and the risks and benefits", she said.
"When providing       mandatory training for all       midwives on the screening and conditions we draw on the health       professional's handbook and       training materials [which the IOE team produced].
They are valuable       resources to signpost if we       have midwives who struggle to provide consistently good quality blood       samples."
A spokesperson       for the Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust (S5) also       confirmed that its midwives have been       using the leaflets for parents since they were introduced.
"They are well       used and valued by both       women and midwives", she said.
Healthcare staff in Wales and Scotland use       adapted versions of       the leaflets.
Minority ethnic mothers: Screening leaflets have been       translated into minority languages, another       proposal that came from the researchers.
In England, information is now       available in 18 of the       most commonly used languages other than English.
The changes referred to above have helped to bring about the following       improvements:       Timely sample collection: Most areas of the UK have seen a       year-on-year improvement (the       proportion of children screened at between 5 and 8 days now ranges from       96% in Wales to 98% in       Scotland and Northern Ireland).
In England, the rate rose from 91% to 97%       between 2006-7 and       2011-12.
Timely dispatch of blood spot cards: Again, the overall       trend is upwards.
In 2011-12, 96% of       samples taken in England were received in the screening laboratory within       four working days, an       improvement of about 10 percentage points since 2006-7.
The number of       samples reaching the       laboratory late (five working days or more after sample taken) has reduced       from 14% to 4%       between 2006-7 and 2011-12 (S6).
Phenylketonuria (PKU): In 2011-12, 96 babies in England       screened positive for PKU, which       prevents the proper breakdown of an amino acid called phenylalanine.
The       great majority (95%) of       these 96 samples were processed within three working days (compared with       90% in 2005) and       97% were dealt with within four working days (92% in 2005).
Babies       referred after 14 days now       tend to have been born abroad or are very rare cases where there was a       screening error.
Cystic fibrosis: Dr Kevin Southern (S7), chair of       the European Cystic Fibrosis Society neonatal       screening working group, said it is "difficult to overstate" the impact       that the UK screening       programme and its information materials have had on cystic fibrosis care.
"Children are receiving       prompt and appropriate early care ... [the parent information documents]       were developed in       collaboration with the IOE (Oliver's team) and provide parents with clear       information on very       difficult concepts.
It is a credit to the UKNSPC that these freely       available leaflets have been used       as a resource by many programmes around the world."
Conceptual impact: International influence: The IOE       team's work is also referred to on health       information websites throughout the English-speaking world.
The       International Society of Nurses in       Genetics (S8), for example, cites their research in its `position       statement' on the nurse's role in       newborn screening.
It refers readers to (R5) after stating:       "Though the risk of harm from the       screening procedures is low, it cannot be assumed that the individual and       societal benefits justify       the assumption that parents should have no role in the screening process       unless results are       abnormal".
The Health Issues Centre, a Melbourne-based body that provides       a voice on health       issues for communities and consumers, also cites their research (S9).
Their work has been       referred to in overseas medical journals that are read by doctors and       other health professionals       (S10) and has been translated into other languages.
For example,       the Cochrane Library offers       Spanish and Chinese (S11) translations of their paper on the       problematical issue of notifying       parents that a child is a carrier of an inherited condition.
Increased collaboration: In addition to their other       achievements, Oliver and her colleagues have       also demonstrated the value of adopting a collaborative approach to such       R&amp;D work and being       committed to genuine user-engagement.
They have helped to change not only       policy and practice       but the culture of blood spot screening.
