     Principal beneficiaries and dates of impact: Politicians and civil       servants and, by corollary, children in England, especially those with       health, social and/or economic disadvantages.
Impact occurred throughout       the REF period, but 2011-12 was a high point, as the influential `family       breakdown' research fed into a string of policies.
Reach and significance: TCRU's rapid response reports have       informed government policy on health, families and children for more than       a decade.
The range of areas covered is extensive.
Examples include a       scoping study on FE students' mental health and wellbeing; a literature       review on improving access to psychological therapies for children and       young people, and a briefing paper on international perspectives on social       work.
As the evidence below shows, the reports have had considerable       `instrumental' impact1 (influencing the development of policy or         practice) and `conceptual' impact (enhancing understanding or informing         debates).
The rapid response programme as a whole:       What distinguishes rapid response work from other policy-relevant research       is the ability to provide high quality information at relative speed (from       two weeks to several months) and the relationships of collaboration and       trust built up with government officials &#8212; an important impact in itself.
The rapid response programme has helped to change attitudes among       policy-makers, raising expectations about the value of research in       policy-making and encouraging `joined-up' education and health research       agendas (many studies have brought together policy-makers in joint       advisory groups).
Richard Bartholomew, chief research officer at the DfE       (see impact source S2), said the responsive mode's speed and       quality enabled his Department to commission "very urgent pieces of       original research to inform live policy debates", overcoming the major       problem of the "very different speeds of the policy and the research       cycles".
Statham's intellectual leadership and understanding of how to       relate research to policy questions underpinned the mode's success, he       said, adding that it was so popular with policy colleagues that "we have       often had to turn down some requests because of overload".
The       relationship between the reports' authors and government makes the process       of conveying findings to the policy-makers who most need to hear them much       less haphazard.
For example, in 2008 Professor Smith was asked to speak       about the findings on family breakdown to a policy seminar attended by 60       representatives of the DCSF, Home Office, Treasury, Ministry of Justice,       DH and Department for Work and Pensions.
Childhood Wellbeing Research Centre: By 2009, when the IOE       won a &#163;2m DfE contract to establish the Childhood Wellbeing Research       Centre (CWRC) in collaboration with the Universities of Loughborough and       Kent (January 2010-March 2014), the value to government of rapid response       reports was firmly established.
The specification of all the new Policy       Research Programme centres commissioned by the Departments for Education       and Health required that a substantial proportion of the budget be       allocated to providing this facility.
The CWRC itself can be seen as an       `impact' of the earlier work.
It carries out rapid response studies, and       its expertise in methodology as well as subject matter enables it to       provide evidence to underpin government-commissioned reviews and to do       joint work with DfE analysts.
The CWRC provided evidence for the Bailey       Review on commercialisation and sexualisation of childhood, which (as       Richard Bartholomew confirms) formed the basis for recommendations on how       the retailing and entertainment sectors could work with government and       parents to reduce the risks to children (S2).
It also conducted an       international evidence review that helped policy-makers develop the role       of the Children's Commissioner for England by providing clear examples of       models used in other countries which could be adapted (S2).
Illustrative study: Family breakdown and children's wellbeing:       This TCRU report has helped support arguments for fairer taxation of       single-parent families and policies aimed at promoting better       relationships within families before and after breakdowns occur.
It       concluded that policies which focus on supporting mothers' mental health,       facilitating cooperative parenting and communication, encouraging good       parent-child relationships, and reducing financial hardship can help to       maximise positive child outcomes following parental separation.
These       findings have proved very influential.
Even before publication, the report       heavily informed a 2008 Cabinet Office Strategy Unit/DCSF paper, Families         in Britain: an evidence paper.
It was subsequently cited in a number       of government publications and had a direct impact on several important       policy decisions.
For example, the government &#8212; using TCRU's evidence       about the importance of relationship quality and stability &#8212; committed       &#163;30m over four years to provide relationship support for couples, &#163;20m       over three years to help separated and separating parents to work together       in the best interests of their child and &#163;10m on legal aid for family       mediation (S3, pp15-18).
The TCRU study is also cited in the:            Equality and Human Rights Commission's Parliamentary briefing on the         Equality Bill, 2010 (supporting non-discriminatory taxation of         single-parent families) (S4).
DWP's 2011 impact assessment of proposals on child maintenance.
Child Maintenance and Enforcement Commission's Delivery Plan 2011/12         (the findings are used to argue that parents should be encouraged to         make family-based arrangements for children before resorting to the         courts).
Social Security Advisory Committee's response to the coalition         Government's 2010 consultation paper, Tackling Child Poverty and           Improving Life Chances.
(The Committee pointed to the finding that         children thrive in families characterised by consistent care.)
DfE's Families in the Foundation Years (2012), which set out         the government's vision for early healthcare and education (S5,         section on Encouraging Independence).
The study attracted extensive press coverage and links to the report can       now be found on the websites of organisations such as Gingerbread, One       Plus One (S10), Against Violence and Abuse, and the Centre for       Social Justice.
Through its impact on policy-making, this research brought       potential benefit for all children and families experiencing relationship       breakdown.
Illustrative study: Review of the Delivery of the National Child         Measurement Programme (NCMP): TCRU conducted two studies on the       NCMP.
The first, a 2009 rapid response study of how height and weight       measurements were being fed back to parents, identified concerns about the       potential to stigmatise overweight children.
It led to changes being made       to the DH templates for feedback letters.
These changes have improved the       information received by all parents.
The 2011 review of the national       delivery of the programme was built on the earlier study.
It took stock of       progress and challenges since the NCMP's launch in 2005, and reflected on       how it could be improved.
DH officials later praised the report's "quality       and timeliness" and confirmed that the DH was already taking action to       address some of the delivery issues highlighted (S6).
Key       recommendations that influenced the 2012-13 national guidance for local       providers of the programme (S7) included those on the need for       further explanation and debate about NCMP's purpose.
This reflected       concerns that professionals had raised with the researchers that the NCMP       was changing from a monitoring to a screening programme.
The guidance also       echoed the TCRU report's conclusion that local authorities and the general       public needed to be made more aware of the programme.
Through its impact       on the feedback letters and guidelines, this study brought potential       benefit to all families with primary children in Reception and Year 6.
Illustrative study: Promoting the Health of Looked-after Children:       Commissioned by the DH to inform statutory guidance in 2009, this IOE       report was published alongside that guidance on the DCSF's Healthy Care       Programme website (it is now on the National Children's Bureau website,       along with an NCB briefing on corporate parenting citing the study [S8],       and in the national archives [S9]).
Recommendations arising from       the study's fieldwork were incorporated into the statutory guidance.
An       example at a strategic level was the importance of Joint Strategic Needs       Assessments taking into account the health requirements of looked-after       children, and at an operational level the need for better communication       when a child is placed with carers outside their local authority.
Through       its impact on the government guidance this research brought potential       benefit to all looked-after children.
