     Principal beneficiaries:     a) Pupils who need additional support - as they achieve more when taught       more effectively     b) schools, teachers and support staff - because the improved deployment       and training resulting       from DISS enable them to work more productively     c) the public purse - because spending on support staff (&#163;4.1 billion in       England's primary and       secondary schools in 2008/9) produces better returns when they are       carefully prepared and       thoughtfully deployed.
Date of impact:     The benefits have been accruing since 2009, and INSET work is growing.
Reach and significance:     DISS has caused policy-makers, education bodies, inspectors, local       authorities and schools to       reconsider not only the deployment of support staff but provision for       lower-attaining/SEN pupils.
It       has had an impact on thousands of schools in England and Wales and has       influenced the thinking       of countless SEN co-ordinators and educational psychologists - see impact       source (S1).
The       description `ground-breaking' is over-used but this study merits the       adjective.
DISS has had two       important types of impact, which can be categorised2       as `instrumental' (influencing policy and/or       practice), and `conceptual' (enhancing general understanding and informing       debate).
Instrumental impact:     Influence on policy: Three months after the DISS report's       publication its conclusions were       endorsed by the Lamb Inquiry into parental confidence in the SEN system (S2).
Lamb noted that       DISS had shown "a clear relationship between support from teaching       assistants and lower       attainment and slower rates of progress for pupils with SEN".
Two months       later the DCSF issued       its response to Lamb.
It accepted Lamb's recommendation that the Training       and Development       Agency for Schools (TDA) should produce guidance on the effective       deployment of TAs.
There is,       therefore, thanks to Lamb, an unusually clear `paper trail' between the       DISS report's publication       and government response to its findings.
The TDA later published three       sets of materials for       student teachers, including a training toolkit and self-study documents,       which refer to the study.
Several DfE documents also highlight the DISS findings, including:             School Support Staff Topic Paper (2010), written "to inform the         debate about the future role         and likely impacts of support staff" &#8212; it refers to DISS 60 times (S3).
Breaking the link between special educational needs and low           attainment: everyone's           business (2010), which stresses the importance of targeted         deployment of well-trained         support staff (S4).
DISS has since been cited in coalition government documents, including a       2011 Green Paper on       SEN. "Pupils with the most need can become separated from the teacher and       the curriculum", the       paper cautions (S5).
The Government Office of the South East       created a DISS Innovations Group       to look at successful deployment of TAs in schools.
Ofsted thinking: The study has also helped to shape Ofsted       guidance for inspectors.
A 2011       briefing advises inspectors to challenge the assumption that additional       support always improves       the progress of pupils with SEN and says they should ask whether TAs       always work with the       lowest-attaining group (S6).
More recently, the study's findings       have also figured in Ofsted       statements on the pupil premium.
In September 2012, Sir Michael Wilshaw,       the Chief Inspector,       said he was concerned that many heads were planning to spend the extra       money on TAs when       research had shown that they could have a negative effect on pupil       learning.
SEN sector: DISS is cited in a number of documents produced       for SEN specialists, such as the       Autism Education Trust's Professional Competency Framework, which       describes the knowledge,       understanding and skills that school staff need to work effectively with       pupils on the autism       spectrum.
Other influence on practitioners: The DISS team has       developed an INSET programme to help       schools and local authorities deploy support staff more effectively.
This       training has been delivered       to more than 3,000 SEN co-ordinators, heads (S7) and other school       leaders in Cambridge,       Coventry, Berkshire, Dorset, Essex, Hampshire, Surrey, Manchester,       Nottinghamshire and several       London boroughs.
The team has also conducted INSET sessions with       educational psychologists,       local authority inclusion staff, NQTs and Teach First trainees.
The       researchers published a       handbook for schools, Maximising the impact of teaching assistants         (Feb. 2013) which had sold       more than 2,000 copies by July 31, 2013, and have set up a project website       www.schoolsupportstaff.net       that offers accessible digests of their findings.
This site had received       more than 470,000 hits by July, 2013.
Many local authorities - including       Bristol, Devon, Essex,       Northamptonshire and Kensington and Chelsea - have increased the study's       influence by issuing       staff guidance that refers to its findings.
Several LAs, such as       Cambridgeshire (S8) and       Hampshire, have changed the way they process and support statements       of SEN because of the       research.
The IOE team also produced a schools booklet, Teaching         Assistants: A Guide to Good         Practice, published by Oxford University Press, which posted videos       about the research on its       website.
Conceptual impact:     DISS has raised the general level of understanding of how lower-attaining       pupils and those with       SEN can be helped to fulfil their potential, and how the country's huge TA       workforce can be used       more effectively.
The researchers have provided many briefings for school       leaders and local       authority advisers and have given dozens of keynotes and presentations to       seminars and       conferences.
Raising public awareness: The press release that the       researchers issued to promote the final DISS       report triggered massive media coverage.
BBC Radio 4 News bulletins       reported the findings on       September 4, 2009, and several national dailies carried articles on the       research.
Moreover, the       coverage was not confined to the week of the report's publication.
Many       articles in the mainstream       and specialist media (some by the IOE researchers) have referred to its       findings since 2009.
The       publication of the Nuffield-funded MaSt study prompted a second wave of       national media coverage       in February 2013, including discussions on the BBC Radio 4 Today       programme and Jeremy Vine's       Radio 2 show.
This has helped to ensure that the IOE team's work has       remained in the public       consciousness.
Take-up by opinion-formers: Several think tanks have also       cited the study.
Demos, for example,       pointed to DISS's headline finding in a 2010 report, Ex Curricula.
Its findings were also referred to       in the Cambridge Primary Review (2009), which concluded: "TAs are       no substitute for teachers"       (S9).
Jean Gross, the former Government Communication Champion for       Children, said her thinking       had also been influenced by DISS, which she has described as "the most       seminal study to address       SEN in the past decade" (S10).
Influence on other countries: Policy-makers in France,       South Korea, Hong Kong, Australia and       Canada have expressed keen interest in the study.
DISS is also now well       known in Ireland and has       been cited extensively by the National Council for Special Education       Research, which advises the       Irish government and provides information for parents.
There are also many       references to DISS in       a report on special needs and classroom assistants in Ireland and Northern       Ireland by the       UNESCO-funded Children and Youth Programme.
