     Principal beneficiaries: Millions of the poorest children in India       and Sri Lanka and governments       and international donor agencies that have been able to target funding       more effectively as a result       of the IOE researchers' work.
Dates of benefit: The benefits of Kingdon and Little's research       have been felt throughout the REF       period (2008-13).
Reach and significance: Kingdon has improved the prospects of       millions of disadvantaged       children in Uttar Pradesh, an Indian state that is bigger than most       countries (pop: c.200 million).
She has done this by:            helping to ensure that free places in private schools (25% of the         total number of such         places) are allocated to the poorest children       highlighting aspects of teacher training that need to be improved (in         the neighbouring state         of Bihar as well as Uttar Pradesh).
Little's impact on education in Sri Lanka has also been profound.
Plantation communities and       primary-age children have gained from government policies influenced by       her research and from       investment programmes that she helped to plan and implement.
Both       researchers can point to not       only instrumental impacts1 (influencing policy and/or practice)       but capacity-building impacts.
India     Instrumental impact: Kingdon's research has influenced DFID,       policy-makers in India, and       international organisations such as the World Bank and UNICEF.
Advice to Select Committee: The House of Commons Select       Committee on International       Development drew on Kingdon's expert knowledge in January 2011 while       considering the future of       British aid to India.
She said the UK should continue offering technical       assistance to India and       argued that although the cost of such aid was relatively small, it paid       for research, "put evidence on       the table", and thus made it less likely that policy-making would be based       on hunch, opinion,       ideology or political expediency (technical assistance can also entail       monitoring and reviewing       education programmes).
Although the UK government decided in 2012 to stop       providing financial       aid to India from 2015 it will continue to provide technical assistance.
A       senior DFID official &#8212; see       impact source S1 &#8212; has confirmed that Kingdon's evidence was one       of the reasons that the       decision to continue technical assistance was taken.
DFID's use of research: The DFID official also said that       Kingdon's work has made a significant       contribution to the development of his Department's education portfolio in       India.
DFID has used her       research to support its business cases and has cited it in internal review       documents.
Indian teachers: The DFID representative added that the       SchoolTELLS study has informed       discussions on teacher attendance that both the World Bank and his       Department have had with       Government of India officials.
The latter expressed great interest in the       research.
In July 2008,       Kingdon was invited to present the study's preliminary results to the then       Joint Secretary of       Elementary Education at the Ministry of Human Resource Development, which       oversees India's       schools and higher education.
This led to two further invitations to       discuss the research with senior       Ministry officials, who then commissioned a similar UNICEF-funded study in       five other Indian       states, which Kingdon was unable to take part in.
Influence in Uttar Pradesh: Kingdon made a crucial       intervention on July 31, 2012 while sitting on       the Uttar Pradesh working group on the implementation of India's Right to       Education Act (2009).
The Act decrees that children from `economically weaker' families should       be allocated 25% of       places in private schools, which are considered of better quality than       state schools and cater for       about 18 million of Uttar Pradesh's pupils (c.57% of the total).
It was       originally proposed that       families with an annual income of up to 250,000 rupees (just over &#163;3,000)       would qualify for these       free places.
However, having researched income levels in India (R3),       Kingdon realised that at least       75% of the state's population earn less than that sum.
She argued       successfully for a lower ceiling       of 100,000 rupees, to ensure the subsidy is targeted at the poorest.
This       new ceiling has been       applicable since December 4, 2012.
The most senior official in the state's       Department of Basic       Education has confirmed that Kingdon helped to bring about this important       policy change (S2),       which means that some poor children are able to attend private schools for       the first time &#8212; even       elite high-fee schools.
This is hugely significant as even the Uttar       Pradesh state website       (http://upgov.nic.in/upecon.aspx) acknowledges that "due to public apathy       the schools are in       disarray".
It adds that privately-run schools are functional, but beyond       the reach of many people.
Capacity building impact: Kingdon has conducted two advanced       workshops (December 2009       and April 2010) for 21 senior staff at the National Council for       Educational Research and Training       (NCERT) &#8212; the body that advises the Indian government on education issues.
She also presented       a course on quantitative impact evaluation methods for 24 policy-makers       from 17 countries at the       Institute of Applied Manpower Research in Delhi in February 2013.
Some of       the NCERT staff that       Kingdon trained have gone on to carry out their own quantitative impact       evaluations of government       education policy interventions in four Indian states.
These evaluations       have helped to promote       cost-effective interventions and identify unproductive expenditure.
Sri Lanka     Little's findings have been presented to, discussed with and commented on       by Ministry and donor       organisations on many occasions over the past 20 years.
Instrumental impact: Influence on donors: The World       Bank's lead education specialist in Colombo       (S3) says that Little's work "has been extremely useful in the       development of policy, especially in       primary education, education in the plantation sector, and in small       schools" and helped the Bank to       implement the US$70m Sri Lanka Education Sector Development Project       (2009-11).
Little has       been very involved in the planning of the Bank's latest (2012-17) US$100m       investment in Sri       Lankan schooling.
In fact, the Bank's representative confirmed that Little       was "the main contributor       to the design of support for primary education under this project".
Little       also produced an evidence-based       case that convinced the Australian government to make a grant of Aus$37m       for the       establishment of a World Bank-managed trust fund to enable further money       to be channelled to Sri       Lankan education.
This is not the only substantial grant that Little has       secured for the country.
Her       deep, research-based knowledge of education in Sri Lanka also enabled her       to write the design       document for the establishment of the national education research centre,       funded by the World       Bank and based at the University of Colombo since 2000.
Primary education: Traditionally, primary schooling has not       been a separate stage of education in       Sri Lanka.
It has been an integral part of general education (Grades       1-13).
This has exacerbated       the status and resource problems of primary education.
However, in the       recent past &#8212; largely       thanks to Little's urging &#8212; the Ministry has accorded a separate section       and, crucially, budget line       for primary schooling within its national education plan.
The budget line       proposal came out of the       2000-2005 plan for primary education, whose drafting team Little led       (under a DFID-supported       project).
Little's book, Primary Education Reform in Sri Lanka       (2000), has also been very       influential.
A former director of primary education in the Ministry of       Education (S4) said that the       book was translated into Sinhala and Tamil and distributed to education       officials.
"Thoughts shared       in this book formed the basis for many policy proposals related to       development of primary       education between 2006 and 2010," he confirmed.
Plantation schools: This retired Ministry of Education       director said that Little's 1999 book,       Labouring to Learn, had also helped to shape government programmes       that have supported       education in the plantations since the 1990s.
Her work had highlighted the       magnitude of the       teacher shortage in plantation schools and convinced policy-makers that       they should prioritise this       issue, he said.
It had also provided the rationale for additional funding       of disadvantaged schools in       remote plantations.
The Minister for Tamil Education on the Central       Provincial Council (S5) said       that Labouring to Learn, which was also translated into Sinhala       and Tamil, is regarded as a       "treasure" by the plantation community.
He added that Little has       "contributed tremendously" to the       development of primary schools in plantation areas.
Technical advice: Little has also drafted highly-valued       technical documents for Sri Lanka's       education planners.
Her guideline for preparing medium and long-term       provincial plans is used by       planners at national, provincial and zonal levels.
Officials have       confirmed that she also made       important academic and technical inputs to the Ministry of Education's       2012-16 plan.
Capacity building: Labouring to Learn also provides key       reference material for BEd, DipEd and       MEd students at the University of Colombo.
Little's publications on       primary and multigrade       education &#8212; and the curriculum materials she has produced &#8212; are used by       the university's DipEd       students.
