     The impact of Neely's work on Tait has occurred within the arts world and       cultural life more broadly, and in education; also in policy making,       through investment in the preservation of Tait's work.
As a direct consequence of Neely's championing of Tait, her work is now       receiving the recognition it deserves.
The establishment of a major annual       award, in Tait's name (with Glasgow Film Festival/Creative Scotland/LUX,       for which Neely is a jury member) in 2009 serves as evidence of the       growing profile of Tait's work.
In 2013 Neely is delivering a guest       lecture on Tait at the University of Missouri-Columbia.
Neely has also substantially helped to develop archive holdings at the       Scottish Screen Archive, The Orkney Archive, The Pier Arts Centre       (Stromness, Orkney) and The Scottish Poetry Library, also of artists'       moving image agency LUX.
In addition to prioritizing the preservation of Tait's work, Neely's       project has also been concerned with ensuring that Tait's work is seen.
Tait generally made films in 16mm, the format in which she intended them       to be exhibited.
It has been a priority to show Tait's films in this       format wherever possible.
This has been the case at a number of screenings       and events including two screenings in the US (Ragtag Cinema, Missouri and       The University of Iowa) and several festivals and screenings in the UK       (Edinburgh International Film Festival, Glasgow Film Festival, Orkney       Science Festival, Dunoon Film Festival, Whitechapel Gallery, The Big Sheep       Symposium &#8212; see a wider range of events, below).
However, it was also seen as necessary to make the material more widely       available through digital modes.
Some of the newly recovered films are now       available on Scottish Screen Archive's website and a new DVD box set will       also be released (closely involving Neely, in collaboration with LUX).
This will include new films as well as films omitted from the original DVD       produced by LUX.
It will also include the first DVD of Tait's feature       film, Blue Black Permanent.
An accompanying booklet edited by       Neely will bring together archival material with interviews and essays       from filmmakers and academics engaged in Tait's work.
The preservation and circulation of her films, the publication of Tait's       poetry and writings, the establishment of an award in her name, have       ensured Tait's work is receiving the audience it deserved, and was long       overdue.
Not only have the newly discovered and rediscovered films offered       further material for analysis to challenge earlier understandings of       Tait's work, but also, more widely, readings of Scottish film culture.
Likewise, Tait's work as a poet was little known before Neely's research,       thereby ensuring a broadening of the scope of studies of Scottish poetry.
Finally, the wide reach of this research outside the academic world has       also had particular relevance for the growing number of artists       researching and working with 16mm film.
Tait is now cited by a number of       contemporary artists and filmmakers as an inspiration for their work.
Neely: curation and event organization (examples, 2008 &#8212; )     `Film/Poetry' event and 16mm screening (Reel Cinema Scheme) at the       Scottish Poetry Library, November 1, 2012.
Tait film screening and poetry reading, Scottish Poetry Library, 20       September, 2012.
London book launch for Carcanet book on Margaret Tait, with readings from       Ali Smith and 16mm screenings from LUX at the London Review Bookshop,       September 2012.
Glasgow book launch for Carcanet book on Margaret Tait, CCA, with       readings from Allison Miller, hosted by Glasgow Women's library, 4 August       2012.
Edinburgh book launch for Carcanet book on Margaret Tait, Word Power       bookshop, with readings from Gerda Stevenson, Edinburgh, June 13, 2012.
Curator, `Margaret Tait's Films for Children', Glasgow Short Film       Festival, with talk by artist filmmaker,Peter Todd, 12 Feb, 2012, Centre       for Contemporary Art.
Curator, `Margaret Tait's Edinburgh Shorts', Previously...Scotland's       History Festival, 3 December 2011, Edinburgh Filmhouse.
Co-curator, `I Crave the Wave Beating: Margaret Tait &#8212; poetry, film and       science', Orkney International Science Festival, 3-4 September, with Morag       MacInnes, Howie Firth and Rose Pipes.
Curator, `Margaret Tait's Edinburgh Shorts', Edinburgh International Film       Festival, 26 June 2011, Edinburgh Film House, 12.45 pm and 8pm.
Co-curator (with Sarah Smith and Maeve Connolly), `Citing Cinema in       Artists' Films' special screening at the Glasgow Film Theatre in       association with Glasgow International, 17 April, 2010.
Co-organiser (with Sarah Smith and Maeve Connolly) `The Discursive Space       of Artists Films', special strand of the Association of Art Historians       conference, 15-17 April, 2010.
Co-delivered short course (with Sarah Smith) on the films of Margaret       Tait and Vivienne Dick at the GFT (in association with LUX), March-April,       2010.
Gothic Film Festival, Macrobert Cinema Stirling, October 2008, assistant       coordinator with Glennis Byron, Global Gothic Network.
Invited talks:     Talk and 16 mm screening, Margaret Tait's Film Poems, Dunoon Film       Festival, 15 June 2013 Margaret Tait (screening and talk), Dunvegan Film       Club, Skye, 8 June 2013.
Key speaker for the George Mackay Brown Memorial lecture, Pier Arts       Centre, 12 April, 2013.
Margaret Tait's Splashing, talk for The Big Sheep Symposium,       organised by Oliver Mezger, Artist-in-Residence, Timespan, October 20,       2012.
Q&amp;A with Gerda Stevenson for screening of Blue Black Permanent       at Edinburgh International Film Festival, June 2012.
Uncovering new material: Margaret Tait', Enter the Archive,       symposium for Glasgow Short Film Festival, 10 February 2012.
`If you really look': Margaret Tait and the ekphrastic in poetry and the       moving image' for study day on experimental film, Stills Gallery,       Edinburgh, 19 March 2010.
Introduction to special screening of work by Margaret Tait for the       announcement of the Margaret Tait award for experimental filmmakers,       Glasgow Film Theatre, 8 March 2010.
`Margaret Tait: Poet, Filmmaker, Beachcomber Artist' Lecture at the       National Gallery, Edinburgh, for exhibition: Running Time: Artists         Films in Scotland, 17 November 2009.
These activities have taken place overall in the presence of a very wide       range of cultural producers and gatekeepers; artists, including film and       literary practitioners; curatorial, museum and conservation professionals;       and members of the public.
