     Colour vision disorders affect around 8% of males and 0.4% of females,       but some individuals with a colour deficiency are able to meet the safety       standards required for colour-critical jobs.
In separating R/G and Y/B       colour mechanisms, the CAD test accurately quantifies the severity of       colour vision loss.
Unlike other tests in use for occupational screening,       subjects cannot use other cues to improve their performance.
The       application and usefulness of the test in occupational environments and in       healthcare was therefore recognised.
Funding was secured from the Colt       Foundation (a charity that promotes and encourages research into social,       medical and environmental problems) and other bodies (see section 3 above)       to establish pass/fail limits for pilots, air traffic controllers and TfL       train drivers.
In 2009 City established a spin-out company, City Occupational Ltd., to       develop, manufacture and distribute the CAD system and other advanced       vision and optometric tests for use in research, primary healthcare and       demanding occupational environments.
City Occupational Ltd licensed the       Intellectual Property (including a patent application: WO 2008/155544).
The company has sold CAD systems to a wide range of customers across the       globe1.
The CAA has used CAD since September 2009 for pilots who fail the       standard Ishihara plate colour vision test2.
According to the       CAA, the adoption of CAD means that 36% of people with deutan colour       deficiency and 30% of those with protan deficiency are classed as safe to       fly.
The US Federal Aviation Administration uses the CAD test in each of       its regional centres, and the General Civil Aviation Authority (United       Arab Emirates) has adopted CAD as the only accepted test for pilots and       air traffic controllers.
Other air transport users include Cathay Pacific,       the Italian Air Force, Lufthansa, the UK National Air Traffic Control       Centre, the Norwegian Aviation Authority, the UK Royal Air Force, the       Republic of Singapore Air Force and the South African Civil Aviation       Authority.
In South Africa the test also allows evaluation of optic nerve       toxicity induced by ethambutol and other drugs used to treat AIDS and       tuberculosis.
The United States Air Force and Navy and many hospital       departments worldwide also use the CAD test.
The impact on the aviation industry has been recognised through two       unsolicited awards:            The Arnold D Tuttle Award 2009 (awarded by the US Aerospace Medical         Association for original research that has made the most significant         contribution towards the solution of a challenging problem in aerospace         medicine; published in Aviation, Space and Environmental Medicine)         for application of the test in relation to hypoxia.
The Scientific Award (Albrecht Ludwig Berblinger Prize, 2011) of the         German Academy for Aviation and Travel Medicine (shared award for the         best scientific contribution internationally).
TfL funded further work to establish safe colour discrimination limits in       its working environment and introduced CAD for its underground train       drivers in September 2011.
R/G vision screening is required as       safety-critical for this group of workers, but all operational staff are       tested for colour vision and anyone requiring track safety certification       must also be screened.
The CAD test also detects and quantifies acquired       loss of colour vision that is indicative of more serious problems, such as       early stage glaucoma, diabetes or ARMD.
TfL runs the R/G and Y/B tests to       check the eye health of all its staff.
According to TfL occupational       physician Dr S. Reetoo, the use of CAD saves money in comparison to the       previously used vision-screening programme.
The benefits go beyond       enhanced track and train safety: `By its very nature, and the way we carry       out the CAD test in the department, we are now in a position to pick up       acquired colour vision defects as a result of subclinical retinal changes       that lead to retinopathy before the clinical onset of local and/or       systemic diseases, such as diabetes.
This will have implications in early       recognition and better health management of medical conditions for our       staff.
'3     In October 2012 the CAA determined that it would extend the CAD approach,       with Colt Foundation funding, to establish appropriate pass/fail standards       for air traffic controllers in the UK.
European regulations for air       traffic controllers stipulate completely normal colour vision, which       discriminates against applicants with colour deficiency who can carry out       the colour-related tasks to the same standard as normal trichromats.
The       project supported by the Colt Foundation and CAA will address this through       a revised definition of the pass/fail limits2.
The       International Maritime Organisation (IMO), which sets maritime safety       standards, is proposing to change its standards based on the CAD system       and to use the recently developed Acuity-Plus test with seafarers in low-       level, mesopic lighting.
The IMO, with the UK Maritime and Coastguard       Agency and the Faculty of Maritime Sciences of Kobe University (Japan), is       organising the first international symposium to focus entirely on vision       standards for seafarers, which will take place in January 2014.
The City team has worked with several organisations to establish       occupational screening standards for the degree of colour vision required       to meet safety needs within the specific environment.
One example is the       UK Fire Service: all firefighters who undertake vision screening at City       University also undertake the CAD test.
The system is employed by military medical services to assess how colour       vision and functional contrast sensitivity are affected under hypoxic       conditions.
Users include the USA Aeromedical Research Laboratories and       Federal Aviation Administration William J Hughes Technical Center, the       Belgian and Swedish Armies and the Home Office.
Use of the CAD test is growing in healthcare in response to press       coverage (particularly for the work with pilots, reported in June 2009 by       for example BBC Online, the Telegraph and the Independent4)       and dissemination through numerous invited lectures by Professor Barbur       and Dr M. Rodriguez-Carmona at national and international meetings on       aerospace medicine and for occupational medical societies.
Examples of the       latter include the International Congress of Aviation and Space Medicine,       the UK Society of Occupational Medicine and events in the USA, Spain,       Norway, Netherlands, Germany and the UK.
Congenital Y/B deficiency is very rare (about 1 in 15,000 people), but       the prevalence of acquired Y/B sensitivity is much higher and increases       with age.
This is often associated with systemic and/or eye disease.
In       ARMD and diabetes, the City research showed that loss of chromatic       sensitivity can precede the clinical detection of retinopathy by several       years.
Very early detection of subclinical retinal changes that lead to       retinopathy enables the use of treatment regimens to slow down the rate of       progress of ARMD.
The CAD test detects significant changes in the       patient's chromatic sensitivity over time and can therefore be used to       identify the need for treatment at an early stage, to monitor progression       of the disease and to monitor treatment effects in clinical use and drug       trials, thus improving patient outcomes.
The test is used for the early       diagnosis of eye disease in hospital eye clinics in Amsterdam, Antwerp,       London, Cambridge, Leipzig, Maastricht and Sydney, at Moorfields (Dubai)       and at the Mends Specialist Hospital and Aviation Medical Centre in       Nigeria.
It is also used to assess changes in colour vision in stem cell       research trials at Moorfields Eye Hospital.
This research has had a wide-reaching impact in the domains of public       services, healthcare practice and more generally health and welfare in       wider society.
Within aviation, 35% of applicants with congenital colour       deficiency are now eligible to become pilots and many who previously       failed now pass after re-examination.
A similar percentage change has been       achieved for TfL train drivers.
Decisions regarding fitness for work in       these occupations have become more reliable and fairer.
Use of the CAD       test means it is no longer possible to pass the assessment process for       colour vision by using other cues, improving passenger safety.
Other       groups are benefiting through the use of the CAD test in the early       detection of eye disease.
In healthcare, practices have been improved and       patients are benefiting both directly from early diagnosis and indirectly       through improvements to treatment arising from drug and other trials.
