     The key beneficiaries of our aphasia research are people with stroke and       aphasia, along with the       healthcare practitioners who support them.
The impact has occurred via       changes in the       administration of speech and language therapy (SLT) and via the use of the       tools we have       developed for assessing quality of life, targeting treatment and measuring       treatment outcomes.
We have developed therapy approaches that are well-evidenced and       widely-recommended to       practitioners both in the UK and abroad.
This is demonstrated by Clinical       Guidelines and Evidence       Tables from across the English-speaking world.
For example, our therapy       papers are cited in the       UK Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists Clinical Guidelines17,       the American Speech       Hearing Association Evidence Maps (accessed 2012)18, the       Academy of Neurologic       Communication Disorders and Sciences (Aphasia Treatment Evidence Tables)19,       the Speech Bite       Data Base of Best Interventions and Treatment Efficacy (Australia,       accessed 2013)20 and the       Evidence-Based Review of Stroke Rehabilitation (Canada, accessed 2013)21.
These resources       document best practice and the associated evidence base and in many       contexts define treatments       that can be reimbursed by funders.
The Evidence Maps of the American       Speech Hearing       Association, for instance, state that word finding treatments are       efficacious for people with aphasia;       their meta-analysis supporting this claim includes studies from City.
Our treatment studies are taught on speech and language therapy training       courses, both in the UK       and abroad, and are widely referenced in clinical texts.
For example,       there are 29 references to       therapy studies conducted at City University London in R. Chapey (ed)       `Language Intervention       Strategies in Aphasia and Related Neurogenic Communication Disorders',       2008.
This standard text       is on the reading lists of all speech and language therapy courses in the       UK.
The quality of our       therapeutic research was recognised by the award of a Fellowship of the       Royal College of Speech       and Language Therapists in 2009 to Professor Marshall.
Findings were       presented to policy-makers       at the All Party Parliamentary Group on Medical Research Summer Reception,       July 2010.
This       was attended by the Secretary of State for Health and the Universities and       Science Minister.
A       booklet which included a summary of the showcased City project was       produced from the event and       Ministers indicated that this would be passed to the Treasury.
The       findings from our aphasia       treatment research have also been disseminated through keynote       presentations at practitioner       conferences (e.g., in the UK, Australia, Denmark, Germany, Greece and       Russia) and through       study days for practising clinicians in the UK, Ireland, Greece, Russia       and Denmark.
A further impact has been in the domain of technology.
Our research into       gesture therapy has       resulted in the development of a novel computer gesture therapy tool       (GEST) with funding from the       Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
This tool has been       piloted with aphasic       participants and has been shown to bring about significant gains in the       use of communicative       gestures.
The tool has been made available to a larger group of aphasic       participants in a follow-up       PhD study.
The wider stroke population has been informed via an accessible       online video (see       https/vimeo.40081415) and via user involvement days at the University.22     The quality of life measures and methodologies developed at City       University London allow       clinicians to assess the impact of stroke and aphasia on people's lives       and to make interventions       more tailored to their patients' needs.
Our tools, particularly the       SAQOL-39, are becoming an       international gold standard, evidenced by Clinical Guidelines.
The SLT       resources referred to above       all cite our quality of life work.
In addition there are citations in       generic stroke guidelines, such as       the StrokeEngine (Canada) website which offers advice to practitioners       based on best available       evidence.21 The uptake of the tool in clinical practice       provides further evidence of the reach of the       impact.
For example, the SAQOL-39 is used for six-month reviews in Camden       (Central and NW       London NHS Trust) to see whether the quality markers of the National       Stroke Strategy are being       met.23 This illustrates the use of the tool as a primary       evaluation measure for a major stroke       service.
Uptake is not confined to the UK.
The SAQOL-39 has been requested for use       by over 300       practitioners around the world and has been or is being translated and       culturally adapted for use in       over 30 countries.
In 2013, the International Association of Logopedists       and Phoniatrics (IALP)       surveyed Speech and Language Therapists from 17 countries (including 8       from Europe, USA,       Australia, New Zealand and South Africa) on their assessment of quality of       life in clinical practice.
The 535 respondents worked in a range of clinical settings       (acute-subacute, inpatients, outpatients,       community) and at all stages of stroke rehabilitation.
The SAQOL-39 was in       the top three most       commonly used measures of quality of life.
The methodologies of Cruice       contributed to an       international Think Tank on social approaches in aphasia (Toronto, 2007)       which has developed       into ongoing project to extend international collaboration in social       approaches to aphasia       treatment.
Dissemination of our quality of life research during the REF period has       included 13 international       keynote and invited presentations at practitioner conferences (e.g., in       the UK, Denmark, Greece,       Norway and Slovenia), presentations to user groups, such as Connect, the       Communication       Disability Network for people living with aphasia, and to general public       audiences (e.g., the ESRC       Festival of Social Sciences held at City in 2011).
The work has also       provided a model for other       areas of practice, e.g., in stammering.
Our work has been taken up in       publications for service       users.
For example, the user publication `Feeling overwhelmed: The       emotional impact of stroke'       (The Stroke Association, 2013) cites City research (Hilari) to make the       point that emotional distress       and depression are more common in stroke survivors with aphasia than those       without.24     City's research has had significant and wide-reaching impact on speech       and language therapy       practice for people with aphasia and has provided clinicians with new       tools for assessing that       practice.
We have helped to place self-reported quality of life at the       heart of rehabilitation.
