     Concerns about developmental language and communication problems and       repercussions for children's education, well-being and future       employability have received increasing attention since the Government       commissioned the Rt.
Hon.
John Bercow MP to review services for children       with speech, language and communication needs (SLCN).
Bercow's 2008 report       and subsequent reports of the Government-funded Better Communication       Research Project and the All Party Parliamentary Group on Speech and       Language Difficulties (established in response to the Bercow review), have       drawn attention to issues at the heart of our research: the importance of       early identification particularly in at-risk groups and the scale and       impact of SLCN in secondary schools.
Government, professional and       voluntary sector bodies have drawn on our research for policy         documents and practice guidelines.
Botting's collaborative research       features in the RCSLT Resource Manual for Commissioning and Planning       Services for SLCN (published 2009, still current) and in the online SLCN       commissioning tools (published 2011, still current)9 of the       Communication Trust (a coalition of nearly 50 voluntary and community SLCN       organisations set up in 2007 by Afasic, British Telecom, the Council for       Disabled Children, and I CAN, the lead voluntary sector organisation in       children's communication).
Both resources support the planning,       commissioning and delivery of services in line with Government and local       priorities to deliver the best return for a given investment over time.
The research also features in a 2008 I CAN report examining issues for       children with SLCN in primary schools and forms part of I CAN's online       resources for practitioners10.
Outcomes of Joffe's research have been influential in Government       promotion of support for language and communication in secondary schools.
In a speech at the House of Commons launch of the Children's Communication       Coalition (an alliance of national organisations, experts and service       users representing children in contact with youth justice services), MP       and Communication Ambassador Adrian Bailey `praised the work of SLTs in       this field, and paid particular reference to City's Enhancing Language and       Communication in Secondary Schools (ELCISS) research programme'11.
He went on to promote the programme in the House of Commons: `I was       privileged to see at first hand the work of the ELCISS-enhancing language       and communication in secondary schools project in Dagenham schools, where       speech and language therapy is provided and training given to school       staff, resulting in enhanced educational attainment and improved       behaviour.
Will my Right Hon.
Friend assure me that the outcome of that       project will be examined, so that it can be rolled out in other areas?'12.
Joffe's work also features in the Government-funded Better Communication       Research Programme reports published by the Department of Education in       2012 as part of its high-quality evidence base to inform policy       development and delivery.
Through her research and dissemination, Joffe       has attained national recognition as an expert adviser: she was invited to       address a meeting of the All Party Parliamentary Group on SLCN in 2009;       has served on the Advisory Board of the Communication Trust since its       inception; and has played key roles in the professional body (RCSLT), as       Adviser and Chair of the national clinical excellence network for SLCN       issues in older children and young people since 2009, and as research and       development councillor and trustee since September 2011.
As well as influencing policy, our evidence-based guidelines, assessments       and intervention materials have led to improved support for children         and their families.
Herman, Morgan and Woll worked with the NDCS to       develop and evaluate a new resource for families, the FSLC13.
Morgan has been involved in training deaf and hearing professionals to       deliver this curriculum to parents throughout the UK, and as a continuing       professional development course at City, running training sessions for       20-25 participants one day per month over the last three years.
Training       is oversubscribed, with bookings up to 2015.
The direct involvement of       researchers in the training has maximised the translation of the research       findings for stakeholders, as has the delivery of the training in BSL       rather than through interpreters.
This was possible since the researchers       are bilingual and many of the NDCS trainers were deaf.
In 2011 Botting,       Herman, Woll and Morgan carried out an evaluation of the effects of the       FSLC on deaf children's language development, showing significant gains       for children whose parents were on the course versus those with parents       who did not opt in.
Our deafness research has thus influenced the content       and provision of a training package that has led to demonstrable increases       in the skills of parents with deaf children and is highly sought after and       highly valued.
As the only norm-referenced and published tests of any sign language in       the world, Herman's two language assessments in BSL14,15 have       enabled a breakthrough in services for deaf children and their families.
For the first time, school-based professionals working with deaf children       have a validated tool to identify those with poor language skills, monitor       their language development and evaluate outcomes of interventions.
The       uniqueness of these BSL tests is evidenced by the translation of both into       other sign languages (American, German, Spanish and Danish), benefiting       professionals working in these sign language communities and the children       and families they support.
Likewise, Chiat and Roy's assessments are the       first to enable a rigorous evaluation of early processing skills in       clinically referred two- to three-year-olds.
These assessments (one       published by Pearson Assessment16, the other available on our       research website17) grew out of a close collaboration with       clinicians, combining informal clinical insights with research evidence to       create precise and informative clinical measures.
These help professionals       to identify children who need support, the nature of their problems and       the type of support they need.
The impact of the assessments is       demonstrated by requests for presentations and training sessions in the UK       and beyond (including London, Dublin, North Wales, Warsaw and Copenhagen)       and their increasing use in research evaluating intervention, which is       essential for evidence-based practice.
Joffe's ELCISS intervention programmes18 for secondary school       children have filled a key gap in resources to support young people       struggling with language and communication and promote the language skills       needed for school and future employment.
Information on ELCISS is       available on a dedicated website19, which has received over       16,500 visits from, for example, the UK, Europe, the Philippines, the USA,       Australia, India and Pakistan.
The ELCISS programmes are used across the       UK: 1,330 copies have been sold to schools and therapy departments since       their publication in 2011.
The impact of these programmes is evidenced by       many reports and comments from clinical managers, local authorities, head       teachers, special education officers and the young people who have       benefited from them.
For example, a Group Manager for Inclusion and       Special Educational Needs in Barking and Dagenham says, `The Local       Authority has been involved in the above, very innovative, project       [ELCISS], which is currently in 90% of our schools.
Feedback from the       schools, parents and young people has been extremely encouraging.
Parents       have seen positive progress.
Staff have reported that training and       materials are of high quality and have enabled them to be effective in       supporting individual pupils through developing their skills and       understanding of speech, language and communication needs.
The Local       Authority has valued the project because of its high engagement of       schools, the positive progress of children and young people with       communication needs and the promotion of inclusive practice.
The project       has contributed to The Director of Children's Services' focus on the       Empowered Voice.
'20 Comments from 12-year-olds typify feedback       from participants: `I really liked the story telling best, it helps me         with my talking,' `I used to feel nervous but now I can express         myself much more.'
Our research has had significant impacts on support for children with       language and communication needs, demonstrated by the extensive use of our       evidence in high-profile policy documents and statements; the       wide-reaching take-up of our research-based assessments and intervention       programmes by leading international publishers in the field; requests for       training sessions and use of these materials across the UK and       internationally; and positive feedback from professionals in the       voluntary, clinical and educational sectors.
Through these impacts, our       research has benefited professionals, children and their families.
