     The findings of this body of research support a policy of mother's choice       of place of birth that has been taken up by the UK Department of Health       and internationally.
The findings provide evidence that professionals are       now using to inform and advise women with uncomplicated pregnancies on       choice of birth setting.
Managers are using the findings to inform       decisions about organisation and delivery of maternity services and       commissioners are using them to inform service planning and       reconfigurations.
This is reflected in major recent UK policy documents       which quote the research as a basis for service design and organisation       and the `choice' policy.
The UK Government's 2012 White Paper: `Liberating         the NHS: No decision about me, without me' cited the research as       evidence to support the policy of choice of care setting.
The NHS       Commissioning Board's 2012 guidance document `Commissioning Maternity         Services' cited the work as supporting evidence for service       improvement to include the policy of offering healthy women with low risk       pregnancies a choice of birth setting.
International impact is reflected in the replication of the Birthplace       Study by a national research team in Australia and in the Brazilian       government's maternity policy.
The Rede Cegonhas (Stork Network)       has been set up to improve maternity care across Brazil, including the       development and roll-out of 180 midwifery units nationally.
A postdoctoral       fellow was based at City in 2013, funded by the Leverhulme Trust, to work       on replication of our AMU study with a case study in Brazil and McCourt       has been invited to provide expert advice on implementation issues and on       evaluation of the implementation and outcomes of the development.
A       petition has been developed citing McCourt et al as evidence to       support the introduction of midwifery-led maternity care in Switzerland.
Locally, the Barkantine Study has been used by commissioners in       decision-making about future service configuration: a second Fetal       Medicine Unit (FMU) has now been opened and new AMUs are being designed.
A       NIHR-funded doctoral fellowship is following up the work, investigating       the skills and practices of midwives working in midwifery units and the       potential for transfer to other care settings.
The prior research by Macfarlane raised questions about the evidence base       of previous UK and other national policies that all women should give       birth in hospital.
Policies on place of birth had been changed in the past       decade in the UK in line with the `choice' agenda, but this had been       challenged as there had been no previous systematic research on midwifery       units in the UK and there was a lack of robust evidence internationally       comparing safety and quality across different settings.
Existing research       had major limitations in terms of sizes of samples, reliance on routine       and retrospective data, controlling for levels of risk, whether the care       setting was planned and on the impact of transfers of care.
Earlier       research by McCourt indicated that women wanted choice in maternity care       and that better evidence was needed to inform it.
The first findings from Birthplace in England were published in November       2011.
They are already highly cited and have been the subject of       commentaries by the Minister for Health, the Royal College of Midwives,       the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) and the       National Childbirth Trust.
They have been circulated to NHS managers       through the NHS Confederation Research Digest.
The RCOG commentary on the       Birthplace Study states:     `Overall it found that childbirth is generally very safe which is         reassuring, however, it showed that first-time mothers wishing to         deliver at home have an increased risk of poor outcomes for their         babies.
The study also showed that first-time mothers have higher         transfer rates from freestanding and adjoining maternity units,         therefore raising questions about the best place for this group of women         to give birth.
It is clear to us that for low-risk mothers having their         second or third child, there was no increased risk if they chose to give         birth at home, so an expansion of midwifery-led care would improve         women's choices and ease pressure on hospital units.'
There have been several letters to the British Medical Journal in       response to the clinical and economic study articles and discussions on       user forums and in professional networks debating the implications of the       findings.
The implications for design and delivery of future maternity       networks under the new NHS arrangements are currently being discussed, but       early impact is reflected in a very rapid rise in the number of midwifery       units opened in England.
An update of the NICE Intrapartum Care Guidelines       was delayed to await the publication of the Birthplace Programme findings.
The updated guidelines are now due to be published in 2014.
The Birthplace Study also received wide press coverage, featuring in a range     of national newspapers including The Guardian, Independent,     Times, Daily Mail, syndicated local newspapers and the Radio     4 Today Programme.
The press coverage generated considerable public and     professional responses and discussions on press websites.
The economic study     was featured on breakfast television.
The findings were also featured as a     summary on the Netmums website, the major consumer maternity discussion     forum in the UK and generated a considerable number of responses and     discussion.
The study was also covered in a Guardian roundtable debate:       Home or hospital?
A Guardian roundtable debate on where to give       birth: `Despite recent research which shows home births can be just as         safe as those in hospitals, many mothers-to-be in England are not         offered a choice' Joanna Moorhead, The Guardian, 11th       July 2012.
Macfarlane, McCourt and Rayment have provided feedback to service       commissioners and managers nationally as well as locally and are being       invited to present the results at major national and international       conferences and workshops.
Further research has been commissioned to       investigate questions arising from the research to date on key issues such       as arrangements for transfer of care between settings, professional       training and preparation.
