     Glaucoma detection: Research on visual fields has led to the       jointly-developed Moorfields Motion Displacement Test (MDT) (www.moorfieldsmdt.co.uk),       a novel form of visual fields test.
The MDT was winner of the Medical       Research Council translational research innovation award (2008) and       published as one of the Big Ideas for the Future by Research       Councils UK in 2011 [1].
The recent NICE guidelines for glaucoma made an       important recommendation for research to improve patient care in the       future, including a call to establish the clinical-effectiveness and       cost-effectiveness of using different monitoring intervals to detect       disease worsening or stability in patients diagnosed with the condition.
Crabb is the principal investigator on a research project tasked with       answering this research question and funded by the NHS National Institute       for Health Research (NIHR) Health Services and Delivery Research (2011 to       3).
Glaucoma: monitoring and treatment.
People with glaucoma need       lifelong monitoring to detect any deterioration of vision.
Computer       software for improving assessment of visual field loss (PROGRESSOR visual       field software [Medisoft Ltd.]) and monitoring optic nerve head changes       (Moorfields Regression Analysis for the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph       [Heidelberg Engineering Ltd.]) has been adopted in glaucoma clinics       globally.
Use of this software improves the ability to identify correctly       changes in the disease that may require changes in treatment regimes.
Crabb's work with Burr (Aberdeen) has resulted in changes in the way       patients at risk of glaucoma can be managed by the NHS [2].
The videos of       eye movements during driving with visual field loss have been used by the       BBC and the International Glaucoma Association [3] for patient awareness.
Glaucoma: service delivery.
Glaucoma is a high-volume and       resource-demanding disease where significant efficiencies can be made by       decentralising care and making greater use of the skills of community eye       care providers.
In repeat measurement schemes, community optometrists       repeat key tests on a second visit before deciding whether to refer       patients as glaucoma suspects.
Research by Edgar and Parkins on a       repeat-measurement-enhanced glaucoma scheme in Bexley formed the basis for       a Case Study published in late 2011 as a NICE QIPP in NHS Evidence [4].
The case study reported a 62% saving against HES (Hospital Episode       Statistics) tariff (equating to &#163;15k per million people).
As a result of       this research, NHS London awarded a grant to NHS South East London as part       of its Continuing Professional and Personal Development funding stream.
This funding has led to the extension and integration of repeat       measurement schemes across every Clinical Commissioning Group area in SE       London.
The research also informed the 2013 Joint College Commissioning       Guidance on Glaucoma [5].
The Parkins and Edgar research paper is the only       peer-reviewed publication quoted in the LOCSU repeat-measurement-enhanced       service pathway for glaucoma and ocular hypertension [6].
This pathway has       been adopted in enhanced schemes across England.
Repeat measures schemes       lead to more care provided in the community and save NHS resources.
Standardised Patients (SPs): In clinico-legal cases, an       optometrist's actions can be successfully defended if it can be shown that       the care provided is supported by the actions of a significant body of       reasonably competent optometrists.
The City evidence-based investigations       into the content of an optometric eye examination have been central to the       defence of optometrists' actions in a several recent clinico-legal cases.
The SP research papers have been identified by expert witnesses and legal       teams as providing unique evidence supporting what "reasonably competent       optometrists" are likely to do in some real-life optometric practice       situations [7].
Published clinical guidelines, which are also often used       as evidence in clinico-legal cases, do not always fully reflect actual       clinical practice.
Our research papers have also been quoted in the record       audit guidance section for Quality in Optometry, Level 1, an NHS England       approved toolkit [8].
Competency frameworks: Lawrenson has significant expertise in       developing competency frameworks in healthcare and has worked with NICE to       produce frameworks for medical and non-medical prescribers [9].
The       guideline recommends that any healthcare professionals involved in the       diagnosis and monitoring of glaucoma have a specialist qualification.
Following its publication, a team led by Lawrenson was commissioned by the       College of Optometrists to develop curricula for professional       qualifications in glaucoma based on the competency framework developed by       City [10].
These qualifications have become the national standard for       optometrists working in this specialty [10] and ensure optometrists have       the appropriate level of diagnostic and management skills.
Therapeutic practice: Lawrenson, as a member of the Cochrane Eyes       and Vision Group, has used evidence synthesis and critical appraisal       techniques to develop Clinical Management Guidelines for primary eye care       [11].
They were adopted in 2008 by the College of Optometrists to support       therapeutic prescribers and form the basis of national pathways for       referral and management of eye disease.
Research on the scope of       therapeutic practice by Lawrenson and the development of evidence-based       clinical management guidelines at City strongly influenced the decision by       the Commission for Human Medicines to extend independent prescribing       responsibilities to optometrists [12].
This policy change has       substantially increased the benefits that optometrists offer to patients       in terms of their quality of care and patient experience.
Independent       prescribing has had particular impact on the management of glaucoma [13].
Although originally written for optometrist prescribers, the Clinical       Management Guidelines developed at City have been incorporated into the       Map of Medicine and other national ophthalmology primary care pathways       [14].
The Guidelines ensure that management and referral of eye disease by       optometrists and general practitioners is appropriate and informed by best       research evidence.
