     The National AIDS Trust (NAT is the UK's leading charity dedicated to       transforming society's response to HIV.
NAT `provides fresh thinking,       expert advice and practical resources, champions the rights of people       living with HIV and campaigns for change'.
The research team worked       closely with NAT when designing the study and shared results with them at       an early stage.
The research findings from the East London Project on       employment, poverty and HIV-related discrimination have been used by NAT       in its reports and practical guides and for lobbying Government, the       public and the private sector, with significant outcomes for people living       with HIV.
Pre-employment screening for HIV     In November 2008 NAT submitted written evidence to the Work and Pensions       Committee in the House of Commons when it was reviewing the proposed       Equality Bill.
NAT was subsequently invited to give oral evidence in       January 2009.
The NAT submission focused on pre-employment screening for       HIV and cited the research on employment among people living with HIV,       conducted as part of the East London project2.
The Work and       Pensions Committee recommended that pre-employment screening be       prohibited.
NAT cited the East London data during advocacy for an       amendment to the Equality Bill both in its submission to Government and in       the notes for a Peer who was to speak to the issue in debate7.
As a result of submissions from NAT and two other organisations, an       amendment was agreed and the law was changed; it is now prohibited to ask       people about health and disability, including HIV, on pre-employment       screening questionnaires before the offer of a job has been made.
This       legislation came into effect in Great Britain on 1 October 2010.
Since the       introduction of the Equality Act in 2010, employers can no longer ask       applicants to complete health questionnaires prior to interview.
This       legislation protects people with HIV from potential discrimination on the       grounds of their infection.
Working with HIV     As a consequence of the East London Project's findings on HIV and       employment, the NAT asked Professor Elford to assist them in conducting       further research examining the employment experiences of people living       with HIV in Britain.
In August 2009 NAT published a report based on this       research called Working with HIV8.
Professor Elford was       a co-author of this report, which builds on the findings from the East       London Project, and supervised the NAT researcher who worked on the       project9.
Working with HIV makes specific       recommendations concerning the employment rights of people living with HIV       in the UK.
The report was timely in the light of welfare reform and the       focus on encouraging people living with HIV to remain in the workforce.
This report has fed into two further guides that form part of NAT's online       resources for employers and employees10,11.
It is important       that employers have a better understanding of the employment issues for       people living with HIV so they can recruit staff from diverse backgrounds.
HIV treatment and care     NAT used data on immigration collected as part of the East London Project       when making the case for access to free treatment for people with HIV       infection, regardless of their residency status.
The data demonstrated       that the number of people who were not legally resident in England who       were likely to seek HIV treatment and care was very small.
NAT's paper,       drawing on the East London data, was part of the formal submission of NAT       with the Terrence Higgins Trust (THT) and African HIV Policy Network to       the Department of Health's (DH) internal review on NHS charging for HIV       treatment12.
The DH officials expressed particular appreciation       for this information since there had been no previous indication of       relevant numbers.
The estimates (with explicit reference to the East       London Project) were also cited in the NAT briefing for MPs and Peers that       accompanied the Parliamentary debates on this issue during the passage of       the Health and Social Care Bill in 2011 and 2012.
As a result of this       briefing, all charges were abolished from 1 October 2012 and HIV treatment       and care are now freely available in England for anyone diagnosed with       HIV, with significant benefits for patients as well as healthcare       providers.
HIV social care and HIV-related discrimination     NAT used data on social and economic hardship collected as part of the       East London Project2 to undertake work around poverty, benefits       and social care for people living with HIV.
East London data were cited in       NAT's report The AIDS Support Grant: Making a difference?13.
This report was successfully used to advocate for the retention of a       specific funding line for HIV social care in the Comprehensive Review for       2011-2015.
As a consequence local councils in England are able to       commission and fund social care for people living with HIV.
The data from       the East London project were also cited in the NAT/THT report Poverty         and HIV 2006-200914.
This research undertaken in East London by City University London has had       a significant impact in the domains of health and welfare, social policy,       public policy and services, enhancing the equality of people living with       HIV in the UK.
