     Frailty in ageing is a global issue that is predominantly managed by the       independent care home sector which is fragmented, isolated and hard to       influence.
MHL has provided a step change to practice improvement in care       homes through its research highlighting issues affecting this marginalised       sector through its evidence-based and relationship-centred directives, its       piloting and testing of new ways of working, the beneficiaries of its       leadership training initiatives and its spread and depth of influence.
Highlighting issues affecting this marginalised sector     The resources section of the MHL website hosts the 6 underpinning       research reports which are also shared on research partner websites [7].
The research provoked 2 Early Day Motions to improve practice in care       homes, one linked to My Home Life (EDM 1588 in 2007) and the other       linked to Quest for Quality (EDM2578 in 2012), for which MHL was a partner       [8].
Evidence-based and relationship-centred directives     The MHL findings have been creatively shared in user-friendly formats       with around 18,000 care homes across the UK and are freely available on       the MHL website.
The Government has highlighted MHL as a "recognised       quality scheme" alongside the new National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence (NICE) social care quality standards and the Dementia Care and       Support Compact for the Provider Quality Profiles launched as part of the       Caring for our future White Paper (http://caringforourfuture.dh.gov.uk/2012/08/08/provider-quality-profile).
Piloting and testing new ways of working     Internationally MHL has influenced the development of a shared set of       evidence-based indicators for quality of life in care homes that were       developed and agreed by 7 EU Member States (Austria, England, Germany,       Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands and Slovenia).
The indicators have been       translated into four languages (English, German, Dutch and Spanish) and       downloaded over 1,000 times [9].
Beneficiaries of leadership training initiatives     Over 500 care home managers in 25 local authorities in England and 9       regions of Scotland have been through the MHL LSCD programme.
Significant       change over time has been reported from this work which has potentially       enhanced the lives of 13,450 residents.
Findings from 132 care home       managers at the end of the LSCD, generated from a before and after       self-report questionnaire survey (Perceptions of Workplace Change       Schedule), demonstrate improvements in: quality of leadership and       management (88%); better engagement with staff (83%); increased time to       offer residents (78%); feeling less stressed (59%); greater job       satisfaction (59%); enhanced engagement between residents, relatives and       staff (87%); more confidence for managers (90%); enhanced quality of life       for residents (89%); and more positive interactions between staff,       residents and relatives (82%).
[10].
Funding has been raised to start       roll-out of LSCD in Northern Ireland and the Welsh Assembly Government       extended funding (originally 3-5 years, now 6 years) for a MHL initiative       in Wales to work with 38 care homes there (http://www.ageuk.org.uk/cymru/home-and-care/my-home-life-cymru-home).
Several local authorities are now basing their care home strategy on the MHL LSCD       programme and one has developed its own MHL website (www.myhomelifeessex.org.uk).
Spread and depth of influence     MHL serves as a quality charter mark for best practice in care homes.
It       is endorsed by the Relatives and Residents Association and all the       provider organisations that represent care homes across the UK (National       Care Forum, English Community Care Association, Registered Nursing Home       Association, National Care Association, Care Forum Wales, Scottish Care       and Independent Health and Care Providers in Northern Ireland).
Over 5000       care homes have joined the MHL Network to share best practice.
Internationally, MHL has also attracted substantial interest.
In       Australia, funds were awarded from the Department of Health and Ageing for       a MHL-linked initiative in Hepburn Health Service (Ballarat) [11].
In       addition, Professor Meyer has spoken about MHL by invitation in Australia,       Canada, China, Japan, Malta, Spain and the USA.
She is also on the Board       of the International Association of Homes and Services for the Ageing (www.iahsa.net) with special remit to       help establish a global network of researchers interested in working       collaboratively with the sector to improve quality of life in care homes.
In England, MHL has gained substantial traction.
It is mentioned       positively three times in the Caring for our future White Paper       [12] that sets out the Government's vision for a reformed care and support       system (p21, p24, p40).
It was cited as an example of best practice in the       Commission on Dignity in Care for Older People (Recommendation 24: p22 and       Case Study: p37) [13] and in a policy report by the Older Age Working       Group for the Centre for Social Justice (Case Study: p33) [14].
The focus       on positive relationships between residents, relatives and staff and the       care homes and the outside world is thought to be key.
MHL is held in similar high regard by the Welsh Government.
In December       2012, the report of the Welsh Health and Social Care Committee into its Inquiry         into Residential Care for Older People stated: "The Committee         commends the work of the My Home Life project which we believe makes a         valuable contribution to improving quality of life in residential care"       [15].
In Scotland, the themes of My Home Life were used to       structure the educational resources on an on-line Shared Space (Improving       Care for Older People) developed by NHS Education for Scotland and       e-Library Scotland Life [16].
In Northern Ireland, the Public Health       Agency have just funded a MHL initiative, following one care home manager       (Sunnymead Residential Care Home) downloading materials from the MHL       website and claiming to have consequently transformed her care home,       winning awards for doing so and being given a special invitation to talk       about MHL to Members of the Legislative Assembly at Stormont [17].
MHL has had a significant and wide-reaching impact on both policy and       practice to help support quality improvement in care homes.
Professor       Meyer is a member of `The Commission on Residential Care', hosted by       Britain's leading cross-party think-tank Demos and chaired by Paul Burstow       MP, former Minister for Care Services (http://www.demos.co.uk/projects/corc).
Its purpose is to develop a vision for residential care for the 21st       century.
Professor Meyer has also influenced the development and       continuing evaluation of new roles in care homes to progress quality       improvement.
For instance, the Orders of St John's Care Trust with 72 care       homes have appointed several Admiral Nurses to help implement the MHL       vision (http://www.nursingtimes.net/nursing-practice/clinical-zones/older-people/care-home-provider-appoints-admiral-nurse/5027527.article)       and another care home organisation (REGAL) with 17 care homes claims that       "engaging in the My Home Life programme has brought many benefits:         giving staff increased resilience, meaning they are less burnt out.
All         of this enables reduced staff turnover and sickness with care home staff         driving forward their own quality agenda resulting in improved         relationships with external agencies" (www.odcg.org/app/download/5793166208/Regal+Case+study.pdf).
