     Our early experimental laboratory work on memory in ASD (e.g., Bowler et         al.
1997, 2004) directly       informed and led to the development of our work on how the memory       difficulties experienced by       people with the disorder transpire in more applied eyewitness scenarios       and how effective current       police interviewing techniques are for them.
The most important finding       from this work is that one       of the most widely-accepted and currently used police interviewing       techniques is inappropriate for       witnesses with ASD: not only is it ineffective in increasing the amount of       correct details that they       recall, it also reduces the overall accuracy of their reports.
These       findings were disseminated via       academic outlets (e.g., publications, conferences etc.)
and to       non-academic audiences including       police and intermediary conferences.
As a result of these dissemination activities the findings are now       incorporated in police training       courses run by Susan Mulcahy, a police trainer based at the University of       Liverpool.
She estimates       that, to date, the training has been provided to some 20 lawyers and       around 5,000 police officers       across six police forces, as well as more than 3,000 delegates (national       and international)       representing the Criminal Justice System, autism charities and related       academic fields.
Separate       research by Susan Mulcahy (in preparation) indicates that police transfer       the information learnt       during these training sessions to their workplace and that this improves       their subsequent job       performance.
The work has been disseminated through the following mechanisms:     Workshop: Training intermediaries on memory and interviewing       vulnerable witnesses organised       with The City Law School at City University London in March 2010.
This       workshop was attended by       over 120 people.
The role of intermediaries was created as part of a range       of special measures in       The Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act for cases involving vulnerable       and intimidated       witnesses giving evidence in court.
The Witness Intermediary Scheme (WIS)       was established by       the Ministry of Justice's Better Trials Unit to implement the intermediary       special measure.
Since       September 2008 the WIS, with Registered Intermediaries operating within       it, has been available in       all 43 police forces and Crown Prosecution Service areas in England and       Wales.
Registered Intermediary Conference (Ryton-on-Dunsmore, Coventry,       UK).
Oral presentation in       October 2010, "Memory and vulnerable witnesses", attended by 120 people at       the annual national       conference for registered intermediaries.
Workshop at Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) special measures       professional training       and development seminar, "Too Much, Too Young: Increasing access to       justice for children and       young adult witnesses" 1st and 2nd November 2012.
This was attended by intermediaries working       with people with autism in the criminal justice system, police officers       and police trainers.
The       training involved disseminating findings from the research and how they       might be interpreted on       the ground.
One day conference on Autism and the Criminal Justice System       organised and held at City       University London June 2012, to disseminate the research findings to       end-users.
This event had       eight guest speakers including the Director of Research of the National       Autistic Society, the Co-Director       of Triangle, which works in partnership with children and young people,       clinical       psychologists, barristers, intermediaries and academics.
It was attended       by almost 150 individuals       from a range of backgrounds including interview advisors and senior police       officials from forces       around the UK.
Surveys of end-users including policy-makers, police       officers and criminal justice       system officials will reveal the long-term impact of the research.
The conference led to funding being sought from and subsequently awarded       by the British       Psychological Society to establish an `Autism and the Criminal Justice         System network'.
This       network organised a further conference held on 16th May 2013       which addressed the same       audience, with the aim of developing research-based guidelines for       professionals who come into       contact with individuals with autism in the criminal justice system.
A       third conference took place at       Greater Manchester Police Headquarters in September 2013.
Two policy-maker       workshops are       also being held, where senior officials from the police, the Home Office       and the major autism       charities will be invited to discuss the development of further       evidence-based guidance including       future revisions of the "Achieving Best Evidence" guidance (currently Home       Office, 2011).
A Toolkit for Advocates has also been developed (Planning to         question someone with an autism         disorder including Asperger syndrome) and made available via the       Advocate's Gateway.
This is a       website which gives free access to practical, evidence-based guidance on       vulnerable witnesses       and defendants.
It is hosted by the Advocacy Training Council (ATC)       (established by the Council of       the Inns of Court) and managed by the ATC's Vulnerable Witness Management       Committee.
The       Gateway was developed in 2012 with initial support provided by the       Nuffield Foundation and City       University London.
It offers 12 toolkits, developed in response to a       recommendation of the ATC       report "Raising the Bar: the handling of vulnerable witnesses, victims         and defendants in court"       (2011).
These provide advocates with general good practice guidance when       preparing for trial in       cases involving a witness or defendant with communication needs.
Our       involvement in the       consultation that led to the development of the toolkit was a direct       result of our findings on       questioning witnesses on the autism spectrum.
Our review paper (Maras       &amp; Bowler, 2013,       forthcoming in the Journal of Autism and Development Disorders)       provides an overview of our       research and serves as a major bibliographic source for advocates.
The beneficial impact of this work is on those working within the       criminal justice system.
Through       the dissemination activities and the network described above, this work       has a wide reach including       police, intermediaries, advocates, trainers and policy-makers.
Their       enhanced understanding of the       difficulties faced by people with autism when they are interviewed within       the criminal justice       system, whether as a victim, witness or suspect, makes significant       improvements to the accuracy       of the information gained.
