     Impact on mental health service providers       As a direct result of Flaxman's funded work, ACT-based training has now       been adopted by the staff support services at four NHS organisations:       Northumbria Healthcare Trust; Central Manchester Foundation Trust; Camden       &amp; Islington NHS Foundation Trust; and the South London and Maudsley       Mental Health Trust.
Between 2011 and 2013, Flaxman personally trained       groups of mental health professionals at each of these trusts and they       have in turn `cascaded' the training programme to their staff and service       users.
All four trusts have now added this intervention to their existing       service provision, and have conducted a series of pilot projects to help       evaluate the impact of this training on NHS staff well-being.
The enhancement of these staff support services in different areas of the       UK is particularly significant in the current economic climate.
All of       these organisations have long waiting lists of staff requesting       psychological support.
In addition, budgetary constraints mean that the       project partners have found it increasingly difficult to access the latest       developments in therapeutic practice.
As a result, all of the non-academic       partners have shown appreciation for the opportunity to be part of the       externally funded training activities.
More recently (October 2013), Dr Flaxman was invited to train       psychologists and other mental health professionals working for the health       psychology unit at Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust.
This training was       attended by 11 practitioners, representing staff support, pain management,       cancer support and weight management services.
This point is made here to       indicate the range of different services showing interest in the training,       suggesting that impact is going beyond the earlier focus on staff support.
Impact has also been felt by non-NHS organisations.
For example, the       director of the City and Hackney branch of Mind (the mental health       charity) arranged for all of the branch's available and interested mental       health professionals to be trained in the ACT approach.
This resulted in       15 people being trained by Dr Flaxman during 2013.
The impact here was       almost immediate: City and Hackney Mind has now been informed that it has       secured funding from Trust for London to deliver ACT-based training to       members of the local community considered to be at risk of dropping out of       the workplace due to a mental health problem.
The programme leads of mental health nurse training at Middlesex       University asked to become one of Flaxman's project partners.
As a result,       ACT-based training was delivered to two new cohorts of nurses in 2012,       with the workshops embedded within the BSc in mental health nursing       programme at Middlesex.
The training has also attracted international interest.
Dr Flaxman was       approached by the coordinator of the Butabika-East London Link (an       organisation and network supporting knowledge exchange between East London       NHS Trust Foundation Trust and the Butabika Hospital in Uganda).
Subsequently, 20 members of a Ugandan network were invited to an ACT       training workshop delivered by Flaxman at City.
The UK coordinator for the       project (Cerdic Hall) will continue with this training, utilising the book       published by Flaxman and his colleagues.
This is viewed as a welcome       application of the ACT approach, as it will be used to support mental       health workers operating with minimal resources in a challenging       environment.
Finally, a stakeholder day was hosted by Flaxman at City in June 2013       (supported by the ESRC Follow-On Grant listed in section 3).
This event       was designed to communicate ACT-based training to mental health       practitioners who were not directly involved in the above projects.
The       event was attended by 150 representatives from NHS Trusts and other mental       health service providers from across the UK.
Impact on employees' mental health       The impact reported above focuses on how Flaxman's ACT-based training and       research have helped to enhance mental health service provision within       several organisations.
It is also possible to demonstrate how the same       programme of research has directly benefited a significant number of       public sector employees.
These beneficiaries include both those employees       who were trained directly by Flaxman as part of the originating studies       and the staff who have more recently been trained by the mental health       professionals trained by Dr Flaxman as part of the projects described       above.
Mental health data are available for more than 600 British employees who       have attended Flaxman's ACT-based training.
All participants who attended       the training completed an internationally-recognised measure of mental       health (known as the general health questionnaire, or GHQ).
Analysis of       change on this measure reveals that the training resulted in significant       and durable improvements in people's mental health, with the beneficial       effects being seen over a six month evaluation period.
The largest       benefits have been observed in those workers who joined the training with       an above average (or `clinical') level of psychological distress (see       Flaxman &amp; Bond, 2010b).
Of these several hundred participants, 160 people were trained by Flaxman       as part of an ESRC-funded project (Grant 1 listed in section 3).
These       staff were employed by two NHS Trusts (Northumbria and the Royal Free       Hampstead) and a central government department.
A further 150 NHS       employees were trained in 2012 by a psychologist who had herself been       trained by Flaxman as part of the project funded by Guy's &amp; St Thomas'       Charity (Grant 3 listed in section 3).
The staff who attended the training       in this project were all employed by the South London &amp; Maudsley NHS       Trust.
Most recently (between 2012 and 2013), more than 100 members of NHS staff       (or trainee nursing staff) have been trained by staff support       practitioners working for Northumbria Healthcare Trust, Central Manchester       Foundation Trust, Camden &amp; Islington NHS Foundation Trust and mental       health nurse training providers at Middlesex University.
All of these       practitioners were themselves trained in the ACT approach by Flaxman.
Evaluation of this `cascaded' training shows that it is having beneficial       impacts on the employees involved.
For example, as a group, the NHS staff       who attended the training have reported significant improvements in their       mental health (again based on GHQ scores) over a three month evaluation       period.
The staff support team at Northumbria has been particularly active and       successful in its use of the training.
A team of four staff support       psychologists has delivered the training to some 80 members of Trust       staff.
The results show that the training is delivering significant       benefits particularly to members of staff with above average levels of       distress and is continuing to have impact.
In October 2013, Flaxman and       the manager of the Northumbria staff support service presented these       results at the Trust's workforce committee meeting.
The meeting was       attended by 20 senior NHS managers and chaired by the Trust's deputy chief       executive.
As a result of the committee's favourable response, the       Northumbria staff support team is in the process of rolling out the       training to even larger numbers of staff.
This training and research programme has had significant beneficial       impacts, has reached a wide range of mental health service providers and       has already improved the well-being of a large number of British workers.
This work will continue to benefit from the close collaborations that have       been created between Dr Flaxman's research team and the national and       international project partners.
In addition, a website "The Mindful and         Effective Employee" has been created to promote the 2013 book by       Flaxman and colleagues and to communicate the psychological skills       training to a new generation of mental health professionals.
The site       includes freely-available resources for psychologists, occupational health       practitioners, mental health professionals, coaches and trainers who might       be interested in delivering the ACT-based training described in the book.
