     Original research with the Conservative Party led to impact in two areas:       (1) it resulted in increased use of evidence-based selection procedures       for parliamentary candidates; and (2) it led to increased availability and       take-up of development activities by politicians.
Political Selection: When the Conservative Party launched the new       approvals process for parliamentary candidates, the use of occupational       psychology research received wide media attention (see section 5).
Mrs       Theresa May, Home Secretary (then responsible for candidate diversity       within the Party), was reported in several newspapers as saying "we         have now got something that is a professionally based, rigorous         assessment....a bold and innovative approach, which shows how         serious we are in making sure our candidates have the skills to be good         members of parliament.
This sends a clear message that becoming a         candidate in our party is not about decisions taken by grey suits behind         closed doors.
It is about proper rigorous assessment of people's         capabilities and skills" (Anne Perkins, Guardian Unlimited       9.1.2003).
A key finding of the research was that male and female performance was       equivalent.
This had important implications.
As women comprised only 20%       of Conservative prospective parliamentary candidates, empirical findings       of equivalence prompted greater realisation that the Party needed to adopt       more proactive strategies to increase the number of women MPs.
The       findings contributed to the Party's development of an `A' List of       political candidates balanced for gender in 2004 which had impact in       trialling of primaries ahead of the 2010 general election.
While it is       difficult to attribute direct causality, the use of psychological methods       to capture empirical data on the selection and performance of candidates       undoubtedly provoked greater awareness of the need for positive action to       increase political diversity.
The number of Conservative women MPs       increased from 8% in 2001 to 16% in 2010.
In 2008, as a direct result of her research with the Conservative Party,       Silvester was invited to redesign the Liberal Democrat Party's procedures       for approving prospective parliamentary candidates.
Following a similar       procedure this involved working with the Liberal Democrat Candidates'       Office and conducting critical incident interviews and focus groups with       stakeholder groups from across the Party, then creating a competency       framework for political candidates and an evidence-based assessment       process.
The project built on earlier findings by developing a web-based       pre-application process to increase aspiring candidates' awareness of how       the Party assessment process works and to encourage a more diverse pool of       applicants.
In addition, Silvester worked with the Party Campaigns Office       to implement a 360-degree review procedure for political candidates       fighting seats in the 2010 general election.
This provided the Party with       information about individual and organisational predictors of electoral       performance and candidates with feedback about campaign strengths and       development needs.
The new approvals process was launched at the 2009 Liberal Democrat Party       Conference at a panel discussion that included Silvester and Nick Clegg       (Party Leader, now Deputy Prime Minister).
The process was also explained       to Party members on the Liberal Democrat Party home page [1] and to       Liberal Democrat MPs at a briefing in the House of Commons by Silvester in       December 2009.
It was also discussed by the Liberal Democrat Chief       Executive at the House of Commons Speaker's Conference on Parliamentary       Representation [2].
As a direct consequence of Silvester's work to redesign selection       procedures, approximately 60% of all UK parliamentary candidates are now       assessed using methods based on best practice from occupational       psychology.
There has also been growing international interest.
Silvester       was invited to deliver workshops on selecting and developing candidates       for political parties in Iceland (2012) and to address Members of the       Legislative Assembly of Northern Ireland at Stormont (2013).
She was also       invited to develop a competency-based approval process for politicians in       Botswana, sponsored by the Westminster Fund 2012.
Political Development: The research on political selection led to       impact in a second area: identifying development needs and providing       methods of support for politicians.
The Labour Government (1997 to 2010)       invested considerable effort into building capacity in local government,       including the provision of development support for local councillors via       agencies such as the Improvement &amp; Development Agency (IDeA) and the       Leadership Centre for Local Government (LCLG).
However, they faced       resistance, in part because the majority of councillors were from       Conservative-held local authorities.
Following media reports that the Conservative Party had successfully       adopted evidence-based selection practices, the IDeA commissioned       Silvester to undertake a cross-party project to analyse the role of local       councillors and develop a `Political Skills Framework' that could be used       to improve awareness of what councillor roles involve and the competencies       needed to perform them.
Interviews were conducted with local councillors       and officers from 12 authorities across the UK; and questionnaires were       sent to more than 300 councillors and officers.
The Political Skills       Framework was developed in 2005 and further work to develop it as a       toolkit was undertaken by Silvester in 2006 and 2012.
The Framework formed the basis for a series of projects undertaken by       Silvester and her colleagues, all aimed at encouraging development for       local councillors and sponsored by the Department for Communities and       Local Government, the Local Government Association, IDeA, LGLC,       Councillors Commission, the ESRC, the Centre for Public Scrutiny and local       councils (e.g., Westminster, Lambeth, Waltham Forest, Newham and       Wiltshire).
Individual projects (detailed below) included a 360-degree       review programme for cabinet members, a review of political mentoring       activities and a new political mentoring toolkit, a review of support       needs for councillors, development of a toolkit for new unitary       councillors, the design and implementation of development centres for       cabinet members, evaluation of the IDeA leadership academy for council       leaders, a review of scrutiny officer roles, an evaluation of top-team       working within local councils and political skills training for       councillors.
Commissioned reports and toolkits based on Silvester's research and       produced for users (i.e., politicians and local government officers) since       2008:     Political Skills Framework: A Councillor's Toolkit.
Local       Government Association (2012): This toolkit is available as a free       web-based resource and given to all newly-elected councillors as part of       support offered to all local authorities in England and Wales by the Local       Government Association.
The Political Mentoring Toolkit.
ESRC (2011) Launched at a       cross-party event hosted by the Improvement &amp; Development Agency, this       free resource is available to officers and politicians in local government       to support mentoring activities.
Mapping Scrutiny Officer Roles: A Competency Framework &amp; Review of         Training Needs.
Centre for Public Scrutiny (2008).
Funded by the       Department for Communities and Local Government and the Local Government       Association, this provides a competency framework for selecting and       developing scrutiny officers.
A Toolkit for Change: Preparing for the New Unitary Councillor Role.
IDeA (2008).
With support from the late Sir Simon Milton, this toolkit       provided an overview of the changes to local authority structures and the       implications for the role of local councillors.
Politics Matters: Making Cabinets more Effective (2008) Leadership       Centre for Local Government.
This explains and publicises the use of       development centres with senior politicians and encourages participation       by providing case examples from e.g., Westminster City Council.
Invited talks for politicians by Silvester during the assessment period       include:                                 2008           Recruiting Political Leaders (Local Government             Association Conference), Developing Councillors (Wiltshire County             Council Democracy Day)                             2009           Mentoring in Politics (British Council event for Government of             Romania), Political Leadership (Home Office), Developing Councillors             (IDeA Young Councillors Conference)                             2010           Transition into Parliament (briefing for Conservative Whips, House             of Commons)                             2011           Political Selection (Political Communication Conference (British             Council/LUISS University of Rome)                             2012           Selecting and developing political candidates (Icelandic             Parliament/University of Iceland)                             2013           The search for good political leadership: What can psychology             offer?
Invited seminar at Stormont for Members of the Northern Ireland Legislative Assembly             and advisers.
Silvester's research with the Conservative Party was widely reported       following the launch of the new candidate approvals process.
Recent       interviews have included: BBC Radio 4 `The Politics Hour', BBC       Radio 5, Radio Scotland (2010), BBC1 Daily Politics www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-20222003,       Financial Times, and The Economist www.economist.com/news/britain/21571928-how-parties-pick-would-be-mps-supply-side-politics.
In addition to the resources more generally available, more than 3,000       local politicians and officers from all political parties have either       contributed to the design of evidence-based practice or have participated       directly in development activities provided by Silvester and her       colleagues.
The value of her work in reaching 60% of serving politicians       is clearly highly significant.
