     Rob Johnson has played a key role in preparing British officers serving       in Afghanistan, and in developing senior commanders' awareness of the       army's role in this conflict and the options for military transition.
His       work has informed the actions of the British military in Afghanistan and       provided officers and other stakeholders with a historical context for       their decision-making.
Providing relevant advice to British officers and officials     Rob Johnson acts as an advisor to various branches of UK MOD (Ministry of       Defence) and FCO (Foreign and Commonwealth Office), particularly the armed       forces and security services, where his advice on Afghanistan is welcomed.
He is regularly asked to lecture on Afghanistan, using findings from his       research, for the Higher Command and Staff Course of the Defence Academy,       as well as the Advanced and Intermediate Courses, on `Civil Transition'       and `Partnering and Mentoring Indigenous Forces'.
Johnson also lectures       and advises for the Land Warfare Centre, particularly the       Counter-Insurgency and Stabilization Centre, where he has contributed to       doctrine and assisted command and headquarters groups in their preparation       for deployment to Afghanistan.
The letters of thanks he has received refer       directly to his lectures, his ideas and to his book: The Afghan Way of         War, indicating their importance in his provision of relevant,       accurate advice.
One brigade commander wrote: "You brilliantly balanced       the recent historical context with highly relevant and applicable lessons       for our own deployment.
Your perspective on Transition quite rightly       challenged us, highlighting the critical importance of not becoming       fixated by a single viewpoint.
"[1] Johnson has been       directly involved in both lecturing and providing advice on counter-insurgency 	  operations in Afghanistan, and in helping to draft detailed       guidelines for counter- insurgency operations.
[2] In a       number of cases, his writings have been directly introduced into military       handbooks and websites.
For example, a chapter of The Afghan Way of         War has been incorporated into a military handbook, and the chapter       "The consequences of a failed state" was included on the official online       reading list of the Defence Academy.
[3, i] He is also       cited in other works that have been identified by the military as key aids       to understanding existing strategic dilemmas[ii].
Johnson has regular engagements with various commanders, corps, and       formations of the British armed forces, offering advice through bespoke       courses, lectures and individual consultation on Afghanistan.
For example,       in March 2010 Johnson visited and gave two presentations on `The       Professionalization of the Afghan Officer Corps' and `The Pashtun Way of       War: Cultural Awareness in the Afghan National Army' to the Afghan General       Staff and the NTMA CSTCA (Nato Training Mission in Afghanistan)[iii] 	  The Intelligence Corps in particular have praised Johnson's advisory       support.
Johnson has provided assistance to each of the Military       Intelligence formations, including the LIFCA (Land Intelligence Fusion       Centre Afghanistan) and the Army Reserves as preparation for their       deployment to Afghanistan.
An officer from the General Staff wrote, "Your       expertise on Afghanistan was unparalleled and not only developed the       individual's understanding, but also underpinned the credibility of the       Land Intelligence Fusion Centre (Afghanistan)... As a result of your       contribution we changed our approach, and I know that CGS [Chief of       General Staff] will be much more content with the products which we have       produced which will be essential to our policy engagements in SDSR       (Strategic Defence and Security Review)15..."[4] Johnson       has also been called upon to advise the former and serving Chiefs of       Defence Staff, and their staffs, on the campaign and the withdrawal from       Afghanistan, and on `cultural awareness' in order to avoid unnecessary       deaths through misunderstandings with Afghan security personnel.
Their       response - "I am so glad that we have introduced this subject into HCSC       (Higher Command and Staff Course); indigenous forces and military capacity       building have sat at the heart of our campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan,       and it seems madness that we have not taken a closer look at this area       before.
Your cautionary words were highly topical..." - indicates the       value of this advice.
[4] The UK Intelligence Corps       Brigade Commander (COM 1 MI Bde) has twice selected Johnson as an       `inspirational advisor', one of just 14 selected from across politics,       business, charity, the financial sector and government and, indeed, the       only one selected from higher education.
Moreover, Johnson has been cited       as the reason for increasing what the British Army calls `Academic       engagement', making greater use of UK and international academics to       develop their insight and understanding of specific regions.
[v]     In-country support for the Afghan Army and international forces     In March 2010, Johnson was invited to assist the Afghan General Staff as       they considered how best to professionalize the Afghan Army officer corps.
In this advisory role, Johnson gave lectures and bespoke advice to Afghan,       UK and American personnel in ISAF (International Security and Assistance       Force) Headquarters in Kabul.
Since 2008, Johnson has also worked closely       with British, Canadian and American personnel in various parts of       Afghanistan, providing advice on countering-insurgency, facilitating       negotiations, working with Afghan civilians and supporting elections.
For       example, in August 2009, Johnson assisted with the planning and       implementation of elections, working closely with the US forces in       Kandahar and Zabul provinces.
Facilitating links between military professionals and researchers     Johnson's role as Director of the Oxford Changing Character of War       Programme (CCW), succeeding Professor Sir Hew Strachan in 2012, has proved       an important platform for facilitating links and connections between       academics and military professionals.
In February 2010, Johnson ran an       international conference on `Auxiliary forces in Counter-Insurgency and       Human Intelligence' which led to his invitations to address the Higher       Command and Staff Course and contributed to his role as advisor on       counter-insurgency doctrine.
In December 2012, Johnson convened a three       day international conference on `Understanding Transition: Lessons,       Frameworks and Observations from Global History' which was attended by       both international scholars and practitioners, some of whom flew in       directly from Afghanistan to participate.
[vi] Johnson       and the CCW programme select and support professional Visiting Research       Fellows from across the academic and professional worlds; amongst this       cohort, senior officers of the United States' and United Kingdom armed       forces working on Afghanistan in particular are strongly represented.
The       Deputy Commander of International Security and Assistance Force       Afghanistan (DCOMISAF) was a `student' of Johnson and the CCW Programme in       Trinity Term 2010, and a study day on the specific role of the Deputy       Commander and the context of his command was organised in 2011, using both       Oxford and external academic colleagues from the United Kingdom, the       Netherlands and the United States.
One of the Generals involved wrote:       "Many thanks for bringing together a truly excellent day on Wednesday at       All Souls.
I was rather bowled over by the academic horsepower assembled       to help [us] understand the theatre that we are shortly to be working in a       little better.
"[5]
