     Prior to this research, an unstandardised and unstructured approach to       selection and assessment of healthcare professionals existed and resulted       in an unfair and biased way of selecting individuals.
The underpinning       research has identified clear criteria with which to identify and select       healthcare professionals and the evidence to implement better and       innovative selection and assessment methodologies (e.g., SJTs, Assessment       Centres) that are proven through validation and evaluation techniques to       identify the best individuals for the job roles.
The major impact of this research has been:            Improved selection criteria: Patterson and her colleagues have         conducted several job analyses across a range of specialties, initially         with GPs and Surgeons, but extending to Obstetrics &amp; Gynaecology;         Psychiatry; Public Health; Paediatrics; and Histopathology.
Substantial improvement in the assessment and selection practices for         doctors through the design and widespread implementation of new         selection methodologies.
The SJTs designed and validated by Patterson         and her colleagues have been used since 2006 for selection into         postgraduate training, including General Practice and Public Health.
SJTs have been piloted for other specialties including Surgery,         Radiology, Histopathology, Core Medical Training, Anaesthesia, Dentistry         and Acute Specialties.
In addition, Patterson and her colleagues have         designed assessment centres which are used across different specialties:         Neurosurgery; Paediatrics; Public Health; and Obstetrics &amp;         Gynaecologyg.
Patterson's profile has garnered invitations to advisory roles and       appointments.
Initially, she was invited to become assessment and       psychometric advisor for the Royal College of General Practitioners, UK       (2005 to 2010) and for the Royal College of Surgeons, England (2006 to       2011).
During this time she was also advisor to the UK Department of       Health and the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges on assessment and       selection (2006 to date).
Patterson and her research team therefore worked       in close collaboration with Royal Colleges and the Department of Health to       develop and implement the selection methodologies.
This meant that they       were not only relevant to the target audience but gained significant       buy-in from these key stakeholders.
As a result of Patterson et al.
's work in developing selection       and assessment methodologies, following publication of the Government       White Paper, Liberating the NHS, in 2010, she was invited by the Royal       College of GPs to direct research and evaluation to define knowledge,       skills, abilities and attributes required for future UK GPs.
In May 2012       she was awarded an Honorary Fellowship by the Royal College of GPs in       recognition of her contribution to selection for GP specialty training.
In       2010, Patterson was invited by Professor Sir John Tooke and the Medical       Schools Council to chair an International Expert Panel to review selection       for entry into foundation training in the UK (the point after medical       school when doctors do two years of generalist training).
The work was       conducted in collaboration with the UK Medical Schools' Council and       resulted in the use of SJTs for selection into foundation training.h,i,j,k     The extensive work conducted in the UK led to Patterson being an invited       expert in the development of an international policy statement on       Assessment for Selection in Healthcare Professions; Ottawa Conference on       the Assessment of Competence in Medicine and Healthcare Professions,       Miami, USA, 2010.
In addition, she was invited to be Selection/Assessment       Advisor to GP Education Training (GPET), Canberra, Australia (2009 to       date) and was invited to advise on selection methodology being adopted       internationally (e.g., Royal Colleges of different medical specialties,       Australasia; Australian GP Education &amp; Training; Netherlands; Denmark;       and Asian-Pacific network including Malaysia and Indonesia).
Methodologies implemented as a direct result of the research include:            July 2012: Australian General Practice Training document outlining use         of SJTs in Australia, referencing Patterson et al's work:     www.vma.com.au/documents/VMA_AGPT_Program-FAQ_2012.pdf.
2011 &#8212; Medical Journal of Australia, Roberts and Tongo outline         selection for GPs, based on UK national "selection-centre" approach:      www.mja.com.au/journal/2011/194/2/selection-specialist-training-programs-approach-general-practice.
The beneficiaries of the work include the candidates going through the       selection process, the administrators of the process and key stakeholders       such as the Medical Royal Colleges and patients.
Candidates: Since better selection methods now exist, tens of       thousands of candidates (medical school students, doctors, nurses,       dentists etc.)
now benefit from improved fairness and evidence- based       transparent selection processes which also have a positive influence on       the diversity of health-related professionalsl.
Improvements to       the selection process also mitigate the longer-term costs of appointing       doctors who do not complete training or follow a medical career.
Recruiters/professional staff: Currently tens of thousands of       applicants go through selection processes each year.
Taking General       Practitioners alone, 8,000 candidates sit the new assessments annually       (initially adopted in 2006).
Selection using the new procedures represents       a significant annual cost saving for the Department of Health/NHS and time       saving for recruiters and professional services staff.
Plint and Patterson       (2010) estimate the cost of the new machine- marked tests used in the GP       selection process as &#163;20 per applicant, where the previous hand- marked       application form questions cost &#163;50 per applicant.
The changed approach       reduces costs by &#163;240,000 annually.
This saving is even more significant       when extended beyond General Practice to Surgery, Radiology,       Histopathology, Core Medical Training, Anaesthesia, Dentistry and Acute       Specialties.
Key Stakeholders: The underpinning research has provided evidence       to implement various selection criteria and assessment methodologies.
This       has led to a major change in UK policy where healthcare professionals are       increasingly being assessed and selected using SJTs and assessment centresg,h,i,j,k,l       with beneficiaries including the Royal Colleges with whom the methods have       been developed and validated, including the Royal College of General       Practice, Royal College of Physicians, Deaneries (e.g., Kent, Surrey &amp;       Sussex, Yorkshire and the Humber, Oxford) and the National Recruitment       Office for General Practice Training.
Patients and the general public: the quality of care for patients       has improved through the reform and improvement of medical education and       training.
Identifying the right person for the job ensures better patient       outcomes and experiences.
The impact of this work is therefore far reaching and highly significant       in ensuring that appropriate staff are chosen for critical roles.
