     The CSR team has had close involvement with the UK nuclear industry for       almost 20 years.
The       provision of continuous funding for the last 17 years from CINIF attests       to the value of our work on       diversity.
CINIF coordinates research into control and instrumentation in       the nuclear industry for       the Government Health and Safety Executive's (HSE) Office for Nuclear       Regulation (ONR) and       comprises all the major nuclear licensees.
It has a particular focus on       the adequacy of computer-based       safety systems.
The industry used diversity in design and implementation long before       there were computer       systems playing critical safety protection roles.
With the introduction of       software-based systems,       there were attempts to argue that simple notions of independence of       failure could be used to       support claims for very small system pfd: e.g., for a 1-out-of-2 system,       the system pfd could be       claimed to be better than 10-6 if each channel were better than       10-3.
The CSR research showed       rigorously that such claims could not be justified, indeed that they were       likely to be too optimistic.
This allowed, indeed required, regulators to impose stricter requirements       on nuclear licensees in       making safety cases for multi-channel software-based protection systems.
In January 2008, the Government published a White Paper on the future of       nuclear power which       concluded that it would be in the public interest to allow energy       companies to invest in new nuclear       power stations.
The ONR with the Environment Agency consequently conducted       a Generic Design       Assessment (GDA) in relation to the nuclear safety and security aspects of       four reactor designs.
CSR research results concerning the limitations of what can be claimed for       diversity played an       important role in the ensuing discussions between regulators and licensees       concerning the safety       of the protection systems of the proposed new UK reactors.8     [text removed for publication]     Complementing the important "negative" results has been extensive work on       what might be done in       the face of these limitations.
For example, we have provided guidance on       means to achieve       diversity between channels (albeit falling short of guaranteeing failure       independence).
In addition,       from our extensive probabilistic modelling work we have many results that       allow system pfd claims       to be justified.
Essentially these results are provably conservative       claims based on assumptions       that fall short of independence.
For example, in the case of a 1-out-of-2       system in which one       channel is "possibly perfect" we have proved that the system pfd is better       than the product of       channel A's pfd and channel B's pnp6 This is the kind of       reasoning needed for the EPR (European       Pressurised Reactor) safety case, where a simple possibly-perfect third       channel is to be added to       the originally proposed system.10 At the CINIF meeting in June       2013 CSR was asked to prepare an       extensive technology transfer programme to disseminate the DISPO project       results to practising       safety engineers; funding approval for this has now been given for it to       commence in 2014.
The most obvious beneficiaries of this research are regulators and       licensees of UK nuclear plant.
Our diversity work has also received recognition in the US nuclear       industry.
A 2010 report for the       US Nuclear Regulatory Commission on the technical basis for establishing       acceptable mitigating       strategies for nuclear safety systems devotes a section to consideration       of the DISPO findings,       concluding that "diversity usage based on the DSDs [diversity-seeking         decisions] identified through         the UK DISPO research can be considered to provide a very thorough         approach to resolving the         potential for CCF [common-cause failure] vulnerabilities in         software-based Instrumentation &amp;         Control systems.
"11 In addition, of course, there is       benefit to the general public, in ensuring not only       that reasoning about the safety of nuclear plant is rigorous and valid,       but also that it is seen to be       so in order that safety claims are widely (and justifiably) believed.
