     Through effective communication and collaborative work with politicians,       advisors, and commentators, Ben Jackson's research has provoked and       informed debate on the future direction of the Labour Party.
In 2011, in collaboration with the Labour MP and Shadow Pensions       Minister, Gregg McClymont, Jackson co-authored a pamphlet for the       think-tank Policy Network (McClymont wrote his DPhil and then worked as a       fixed-term lecturer in the Oxford History Faculty between 2000 and 2009).
Overall, the pamphlet and the debate it initiated played an important role       in framing the Labour Party's Policy Review as being about finding a       response to Conservative austerity that projects a national rather than       sectional Labour policy appeal.
The pamphlet, Cameron's Trap: Lessons for Labour from the 1930s and         1980s (Policy Network, 2011), argued that Labour's future direction       should be informed by the experience of earlier periods of economic       austerity when, in spite of mass unemployment and public retrenchment, the       Conservative Party was able to prosper at the ballot box.
Drawing on       Jackson's work on the ideological foundations of Thatcherism, Jackson and       McClymont argued that Conservative success depended on being able to       present Labour as a sectional party, and on defining the key metric of       political competence as which party is most effective at managing       austerity.
Drawing on Jackson's work on progressive political rhetoric,       the pamphlet then suggested how Labour could frame its policy agenda as a       patriotic, national one focused around encouraging growth rather than       managing austerity.
The text was available for free download on the Policy       Network website       (http://www.policy-network.net/publications_detail.aspx?ID=4113).
Cameron's Trap was widely discussed after its launch on 29       December 2011.
An article based on the pamphlet was published by the Guardian       on the day of its launch (`How Labour can avoid the Tory trap', Guardian,       29 December 2011); in addition, the Guardian ran two other       articles reporting and analysing it (including one on its front page)       [i][ii].
The ideas and arguments presented in the pamphlet were then       widely debated on a number of important Labour and progressive websites       and publications, such as LabourList, Liberal Conspiracy,       Next Left (the then blog of the Fabian Society), Compass, Huffington         Post, Labour Uncut, Fabian Review, Progress,       as well as sparking media commentary in major media outlets such as the       BBC News website, the New Statesman, the Scotsman, and       others [iii][iv][v][vi][vii][viii].
The pamphlet was officially launched       in a seminar at the House of Commons on 16 January 2012, at which       McClymont and Jackson both spoke and responded to comments on the pamphlet       by Stewart Wood (one of Ed Miliband's advisors), the journalist Jenni       Russell, and the political scientist Tim Bale (Tim Bale's comments were       subsequently published as an article on the Guardian website).
The       audience at the launch included Labour MPs, advisors, and other figures       closely involved in Labour's policy debates.
Subsequent articles by       McClymont and Jackson on the websites LabourList and History         and Policy further publicised the pamphlet's argument and responded       to criticisms.
The co-ordinator of Labour's Policy Review, Jon Cruddas,       has said: `Ben Jackson's research was really valuable when we were framing       the work of the Labour Party's Policy Review.
It set out the historical       context for today's policy debates and the traps Labour has to avoid as we       develop our new direction.'
[1]     After Ed Miliband's speech at the annual party conference in 2012, at       which Labour's new designation as `One Nation Labour' made its debut,       Jackson contributed to the debate surrounding the meaning and implications       of Miliband's speech.
Using his earlier research into the history of       progressive rhetoric about economic redistribution, he contributed a post       to the Labour blog Shifting Grounds that drew out the egalitarian       implications and historical precedents of a One Nation Labour appeal       (`Miliband reclaims social patriotism', Shifting Grounds blog, 4       October 2012, at http://shiftinggrounds.org/2012/10/miliband-reclaims-social-patritotism/).
This post was widely read, and consequently he was commissioned to write a       longer article for Juncture, the house journal of the centre-Left       think-tank the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR), elaborating on       the historical parallels and egalitarian implications of Labour's new       rhetoric.
As Guy Lodge, Associate Director of the IPPR, explains, `Ben       Jackson's research on the history of progressive political rhetoric       provided an important historical dimension to the debates around Ed       Miliband's "One Nation Labour" agenda.
I commissioned Ben Jackson to write       a piece drawing on this research for IPPR's journal, Juncture,       which is widely read by policy-makers.'
[2] (`The masses against       the classes: One Nation Labour and the revival of social patriotism', Juncture,       19 (2012), pp.
160-5, shortened version at http://www.ippr.org/juncture/171/10060/one-nation-labour-and-the-         revival-of-social-patriotism).
By highlighting that Miliband's use       of `One Nation' was not only an attempt to co-opt traditional Conservative       ideas, but also a revitalisation of earlier forms of progressive rhetoric       grounded on social patriotism, these writings contributed directly to the       discussion of social policy within the Parliamentary Labour Party.
As       attested by the Shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury, "Cameron's Trap       was widely read and debated within the Labour Party.
It gave a historical       perspective on the policy discussions Labour is now engaged in which       helped clarify how Labour can respond to a period of austerity and craft a       One Nation policy agenda."
[3]
