     The underpinning research has improved clinical management of patients       with or at risk of developing angle-closure glaucoma.
These benefits have       arisen primarily through the impacts of the research on global       understanding of and guidelines for glaucoma management and, subsequently,       on clinical practice in this area.
Glaucoma causes irreversible loss of vision.
It ranks second only to       cataract as a cause of blindness worldwide, and angle-closure glaucoma       accounts for half of all glaucoma blindness.
The number of people with       glaucoma has been projected to increase by 33% between 2010 and 2020, from       16 million globally in 2010 to an estimated 21 million by 2020 [a].
Prevalence of glaucoma increases exponentially with age, making it a       significant global public health problem.
In England, NHS data show that       7% of all outpatient activity occurs within hospital eye services, and       glaucoma accounts for around 25% of all eye outpatient activity.
The research outlined above has made a major contribution to widespread       recognition of the scale and significance of angle-closure glaucoma as a       global problem, particularly in Asia but also in Europe, where an       estimated 1.6 million are currently affected [b].
The       classification system designed initially for epidemiological studies ([1]       above) has now become the international standard classification system for       natural history staging of angle-closure glaucoma.
In 2006 it was adopted       by the World Glaucoma Association as its international classification       system, which has resulted in a global impact on understanding and       influence on guidelines through the period 2008- 13 [c].
Key clinical guidelines in Asia Pacific, Europe and the US have been       influenced by the research described above.
Foster was a member of the       Working Party that produced the first ever Asia Pacific Glaucoma       Guidelines.
These draw on his work particularly in their opening section       on epidemiology.
These guidelines were first published in 2004, and have       remained in use throughout the period 2008-13 [d].
Foster also       advised on production of the 3rd edition of the European Glaucoma       Society's Terminology and guidelines for glaucoma, which were published in       2008 [e].
These guidelines likewise frequently draw on and       directly cite the research outlined above.
They are widely distributed to       and used by clinicians across Europe.
The American Academy of       Ophthalmology (AAO) Preferred Practice Patterns (PPP), also make use of       the underpinning research described above.
The PPP for Primary Angle       Closure (published in 2010) makes similarly extensive use of Foster's       research, citing [1], [2], [3], and [5] [f].
Again, these       references appear particularly frequently in the section dealing with       epidemiology.
PPP documents are published by the AAO as "a service to its       members and the public", allowing them to "identify characteristics and       components of quality eye care".
The development of these guidelines drawing on the research has had a       significant effect on clinical practice and, in turn, has had positive       impacts on patient experience, wellbeing and clinical outcomes.
More       specifically, the new guidelines have catalysed a more proactive approach       to the management of angle-closure glaucoma in the UK, especially as a       result of increased awareness of its early stages.
This direct impact of       the research-based change in guidelines on the management of angle-closure       glaucoma is evident from Hospital Episodes Statistics (HES) data revealing       trends in laser surgery for angle-closure glaucoma between 1998 to 2010.
These data show a stable rate of laser iridotomies of 2-3,000 per annum       between 1998 and 2003 in the UK.
Between 2003 and 2010, however, laser       iridotomy rates in the UK have risen almost 3-fold, from 3,093 to 8,669       per year [g].
This increase in treatment rates, which reflects       findings and recommendations made in the underpinning research       (particularly [6]) corresponds with a 45% fall in the rate of acute       attacks of angle-closure glaucoma in the UK.
Emergency angle-closure       glaucoma treatments between 1998 and 2002 averaged 1,242/annum.
Between       2007 and 2010, this had fallen to 703/annum.
