     The engineering company ASD Westok Ltd manufacture a patented form of       castellated beam, using circular openings.
At first these beams were used       predominantly as roof beams, replacing traditional castellated beams.
When       used for floor construction, such that the top flange was made to act       compositely with the concrete slab, savings of more than 30% in steel       weight were achieved, compared to a standard rolled beam also acting       compositely with the floor slab.
Floor design     As a result of City's research into steel floor construction, the span of       a beam can now be designed to more stringent limits, giving a 25% to 40%       reduction in required inertia with 12% reduction in steel.7       Additionally the span of the beam has been increased, extending the       options available to engineers and architects and reducing the number of       beams and connections assembled on site.
This allows approximately twice       the area to be erected in the same time.
As beams can now span further,       there are fewer columns and foundations.
The longer beam spans enable use       of thinner floor slabs, reducing the volume of concrete required       (estimated at one concrete mixer truck less per floor), contributing       further to material cost savings and reducing road miles and consequent CO2.
This extends a building's potential life span due to unrestricted internal       layouts and reduces the number of buildings left empty because their       layout does not suit intended use by the owners, providing further       environmental benefits.7, 12     The results from the tests conducted at City and the follow-up work have       had a profound influence on building design in the UK, Europe and the USA       as a result of SCI revising their design guidance concerning the dynamic       behaviour of floors.
Software developed by SCI for ASD Westok Ltd       incorporating the City research is used by designers of all cellular beams       and is integrated as a component into other widely-used general building       design software.
The development of long span solutions has led to       economical solutions with lower material weight, fewer foundations and       faster erection, as there are fewer beams.
The beams also meet stringent       vibration requirements, including those specified for hospitals.
While       designers across the world may not be aware of the source of such       advances, they are in part directly traceable to this important test work       undertaken by City University London.7     Cellular Beams     Our work on the Cellular Beam has allowed mechanical and electrical plant       equipment to be integrated within the depth of the floor space instead of       hung beneath it.
As a result Cellular Beams use 25% to 30% less steel than       a conventional beam.
City's work in this field has more than doubled the       tonnage of beams produced by ASD Westok Ltd. [text removed for       publication]     Ultra Shallow Floor Beams (USFBs)     USFB allow more economic shallow floor construction solutions, reducing       the structural floor zone and building height or allowing for more floors       to be inserted within a prescribed Planning Regulation building height       limit.
The result is a more efficient use of available building space and       volume.
By reducing the internal volume to be heated or cooled, savings on       construction cladding costs are realised, together with reductions in       building life costs.
Buildings requiring high light/glazing levels such as       schools particularly benefit from the reductions in solar heating that       accompany reductions in building cladding height.
Following the release of       SCI design software for USFB (based on City's research findings), sales       increased dramatically [text removed for publication].7, 8 13     TATA Steel     TATA Steel is the second largest steel manufacturer in Europe and the       seventh largest worldwide.
(i) Asymmetric Slimflor Beams (ASBs)     Slimflor&#8482; and Slimdek&#8482; are products of TATA Steel Europe, developed by       City University London.6 ASBs and Comflor210/225 (a thinner       steel composite metal decking), which together comprise the Slimflor       system, are sold individually to allow other manufacturers' products, such       as precast hollow core concrete panels, to be combined with the ASBs.
Slimflor and Slimdek are now regularly designed as steel solution where       structural design needs to be kept to a minimum.
These beams also       contribute to total building cost savings and value through reducing the       need for cladding and minimising building height or increasing lettable       floor area through more floors for the same height.
This research has also       been written into a software design suite by the Steel Construction       Institute.
[text removed for publication]     (ii) TATA Bi-Steel     TATA Bi-Steel is now also marketed as Corefast&#8482; [text removed for       publication].
While this product line was affected by the economic       downturn of that period, Bi-Steel also forms the basis for an entire range       of protective barriers which has generated further business success,       achieving [text removed for publication] a prestigious &#163;7M contract to       supply security barriers at the Olympic Park in London in 2012 and the       subsequent London Legacy Park.
Bi-Steel is also used in the defence and       security markets where the inherent blast resistance contributes to niche       specialist products associated with hostile vehicle mitigation and blast       protective structures.10, 11     Steel Construction Institute     SCI has been a trusted source of information and engineering expertise       globally for 25 years and remains the leading independent provider of       technical expertise and disseminator of best practice to the steel       construction sector.
Revenue generation to the SCI resulting from the       development and sales of design guidance literature and software for all       of the above steel products [text removed for publication].12     Commercial building market     As a result of research partly conducted by City, TATA and the British       Constructional Steelwork Association (BCSA) have recently published an       independent study showing that, for the first quarter of 2012, steel       options for typical small business park offices (3 storey, c.3200m2)       and city centre office buildings (8 storey, c.16,500m2) are now       9% cheaper than the concrete equivalents.
Steel now allows a 1-13%       reduction in construction time and an 18-30% reduction in embodied carbon.
This represents a major transformation in the efficiency of the steel       construction industry.
For multi-storey non-residential buildings, steel       construction has had an average market share of 70% over the past few       years; a significant success for the industry where the share was around       30% in the early 1980s.
This news, published by the BCSA, has been freely       disseminated to practitioners via their website and in hardcopy form with       industry magazines, thereby helping steel maintain its position in the UK       commercial building market.9, 14, 15
