     Our research has changed the way patients with NHL are managed in the UK       and worldwide.
This       work has resulted in improved patient survival, quality of life and       appropriate resource utilisation.
In relapsed and resistant DLBCL our research has helped to establish the       benefit of ASCT in this       situation.
The subsequent CORAL trial indicated that there was no benefit       to post-ASCT rituximab       maintenance therapy and this saves approximately &#163;18,000 per patient.
In       the front line treatment       of DLBCL, the finding that R-CHOP given every three weeks is as effective       as the more intensive       two-weekly R-CHOP, which requires growth factor support, has allowed       discontinuation of this       more expensive strategy.
In advanced follicular lymphomas, our research provided the trial data       that has underpinned the       policy of withholding chemotherapy until symptoms intervene.
The advantage       of this is to avoid       toxicity of treatment.
The subsequent evidence we provided of the effect       of rituximab in these       patients improved the treatment for these patients still further.
These       policies have been       incorporated into UK guidelines, which state that: "Observation remains         an appropriate approach         in patients with asymptomatic advanced stage follicular lymphoma in an         attempt to delay the need         for chemotherapy.
This is particularly the case for patients over 70         years of age" [a].
In the US,       guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network state that: "Observation         may be         appropriate in Stage I and II disease where potential toxicity of         involved field radiotherapy         outweighs potential clinical benefit" and in patients with more       advanced disease who are       asymptomatic, "Watchful waiting is the only approach advised" [b].
The European Society for       Medical Oncology also made similar recommendations in their 2010       guidelines [c].
Based on the       incidence of indolent forms of NHL, since 2008 approximately 900 patients       per year in the UK       have been able to delay chemotherapy with its attendant toxicities [d].
This strategy also       conserves resources without detriment to the patients.
The average age of       presentation of       follicular lymphoma approaches 70 years of age, and up to 40% of surviving       asymptomatic       patients above this median age at presentation will not have need of any       chemotherapy over the       following 10 years [e], a period during which competing causes of       death will have intervened.
Our studies have established the role of allogeneic RITs in patients with       relapsed and resistant       lymphomas.
The BCSH guidelines state that "Reduced Intensity         Conditioning allogeneic         transplants should be considered for younger follicular lymphoma         patients who have relapsed" [a],       and a similar statement is contained in the European guidelines [c].
The US NCCN guidelines [b]       advocate a similar approach and suggest that allogeneic stem cell       transplants should be       considered in selected cases such as those patients who have failed an       autograft, did not mobilise       sufficient stem cells for such a procedure or who had persisting bone       marrow disease.
In summary, the establishment of allogeneic transplantation strategies in       relapsed and resistant       non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, both indolent and DLBCL, is undoubtedly saving       lives.
Based on       European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) activity data       for the period       spanning 2006 to 2011 [f, g], we estimate that 26,000 patients       with NHL underwent autologous       and 6,000 underwent allogeneic transplants.
From prior EBMT publications       on transplantation for       lymphoma that 60% of these transplants were performed for indolent NHL or       DLBCL.
We can       therefore estimate that approximately 6,500 patients with have been cured,       and in the case of       indolent lymphoma 2,000 patients have attained durable remissions,       following autologous and       allogeneic transplantation.
