     Driven by concerns over public health and intensifying legislative       demands of the food industry in both Europe and USA, the reliable and       effective removal of unwanted objects from food products at a processing       stage is of increasing importance.
The assurance of food quality and safety throughout the pre- and       post-harvest food chain makes this issue even more significant.
The       effective implementation of relevant technological solutions for food       safety and quality can dictate the survival, growth and competitive edge       of some major sectors of the economy.
The UK has a major role to play in this food sorting industry, as it is       home to one of the world leaders in research, development and manufacture       of optical bulk food sorting technologies.
Buhler Sortex Ltd holds 10%-20%       of the market share for sorting wet and dry products such as rice (the       staple grain for half the world's population), coffee beans, peanuts,       vegetables, etc.
Precise market share varies over time as players enter       and leave the market.
The ejector sub-system developed with Buhler Sortex Ltd as a result of       the City research constitutes the prime technology for Buhler Sortex's       business.
The impact can be defined in a number of ways:     Economic Impacts     (a) Through our principal industrial partner: Buhler Sortex Ltd       introduced the ejector sub-system developed through our research in their       new generation of dry sorting machines.
Their Z-series and ZHVC-series       machines have been replacing the previous market leader series 90000       machines since 2000 and have enabled Buhler Sortex Ltd to maintain their       current lead in the highly competitive and lucrative world food sorting       industry, currently worth over &#163;200M annually.
Maintaining this lead in       the UK for the next generation sorting machines adds real value to UK       manufacturing.
Our multi-billion cycle lifetime ejector valves fitted in       the new generation of sorting machines enable Buhler Sortex Ltd to offer a       machine lifetime guarantee and continuous 24/7 operation with no downtime.
This is a unique selling feature that is enhancing sales by 50%.
Previously Buhler Sortex Ltd had a 20% share in the global marketplace for       food sorting machines.
With our new ejector technology implemented in       their new generation of sorting machines, Buhler Sortex Ltd is expected to       increase its share by 5%-10%, a very sizeable increase considering the       scale of this highly competitive market.
The work also contributed to       Buhler Sortex Ltd receiving three prestigious Queen's Awards (The Queen's       Award for Enterprise - Innovation, 2001 and The Queen's Award for       Enterprise - International Trade, 2005 and 2011).
(b) Through the UK grain milling industry: The new sorting       machines are used by grain milling corporations such as Vogan &amp;       Company (now S&amp;B Herba Foods, a major UK grain milling group).
The       machines provide reduced running costs for end-user food sorting       industries through more efficient (less waste and energy) and reliable (no       downtime) bulk food sorting.
Currently, the replacement of worn out       ejectors comprises a significant proportion of the cost of ownership of a       sorting machine, typically around &#163;10,000 per machine per year.
The       increased sorting resolution in the new machines delivers an improvement       in sorting performance.
With the use of new ejector valves the amount of       good food product rejected after sorting has been reduced from 2% to 0.5%.
In addition, the amount of good food contained in reject products after       sorting has been reduced from 25% to 10%.
(c) Supplying UK industry with ejector valves: Buhler Sortex Ltd       typically requires between 100,000 and 300,000 ejector valves each year       for newly-built machines and as spares for machines in the field.
Buhler       Sortex Ltd undertakes to support machines for a ten-year life span and       hence it alone generates a significant business for the ejector industry.
For example the new ejector valves have generated additional business       worth &#163;3M per annum to IMI Webber, a manufacturer of solenoid valves used       for controlling compressed air, inert gases, water and other fluids.
(d) Ensuring a UK technological lead and growing exports:       Currently Buhler Sortex Ltd sells between 1,000 and 2,000 sorting machines       per year in over 100 countries.
Each machine has an average price of       &#163;50,000 and &#163;100,000.
The period of strong growth currently being       experienced by the optical food sorting industry generates worldwide sales       of over &#163;200M.
Societal Impacts     Societal impact through UK end-user consumers: A fivefold       improvement in food product quality and safety has been achieved through       the use of advanced sorting machines by the UK milling industry, including       companies such as S&amp;B Herba Foods.
The new generation of sorting       machines incorporating the new ejector valves are more effective in       rejecting food products such as those affected by toxins formed during       storage in wet seasons and harmful to human consumption (e.g., rice       grains).
The quality and safety of the food we consume is very much linked       to overall public health and is therefore of major concern and interest in       society.
Food safety and its quality are of primary concern to the World       Health Organization and the United Nation's Food and Agriculture       Organisation.
The acceptable level of affected product in food for human       consumption is minute and strictly monitored.
The new generation of       sorting machines can remove imperfect grains, avoiding what could be a       major food safety problem.
Environmental Impacts     The increased lifetime of the newly-developed ejector sub-systems and       their increased sorting resolution and performance mean that the new       sorting machines offer a fourfold reduction in power consumption.
They       have also reduced food wastage by up to 50% as a result of reductions in       downtime and re-sorting and in servicing costs.
This contributes       significantly to agricultural sustainability.
Beyond the food sorting industry optical sorting is increasingly playing       a major role in waste identification and separation.
Through our principal       industry partner Buhler Sortex Ltd improvements are also being achieved in       the waste plastic industry.
The new EM ejector system has the potential to       boost the efficiency of this industry as it has done for the food sector,       impacting positively and substantially on the efficiency of plastic       recycling around the world.
This has enabled Buhler Sortex Ltd to open up       a new market for their machines for sorting plastics such as rPET, uPVC       and HDPE.
