     In 2011, BIS put forward proposals to reform the competition regime and       invited stakeholders to contribute their feedback.
In response, the CCRP       organised a Round Table in January 2012 on "The Future of the UK's         Competition Regime", with panellists including Roger Witcomb (the       Chairman of the Competition Commission (CC)), Peter Freeman (now a       Chairman of the Competition Appeal Tribunal and Amelia Fletcher (the then       Chief Economist of the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)),.
The Round Table was       chaired by Professor John Cubbin [1].
After the Round Table, a document       [2] was submitted to BIS which made a significant contribution to the       formation of the Final Proposals by the Government in March 2012 [3].
These in turn became the backbone for drafting the ERR Bill.
BIS mentions       explicitly the CCRP 2012 Round Table as one of the events that informed       the formation stages of its reforms [3].
Given the success of the first Round Table, the CCRP agreed with BIS to       organise a second Round Table with the formal presence of the CMA's Chair       Designate Lord Currie as a panel member.
Among other experts, the panel       included Mary Starks (Senior Director, OFT) and Roger Witcomb [4].
BIS was       formally represented in the audience by its senior competition policy       staff who were involved in establishing the CMA.
The CCRP agreed that the       second event would focus on the topic of market investigations conducted       by the CMA and the implications of this decision on the efficacy and       legitimacy of the new regime, as well as the implications of the new       regime on concurrency (i.e., the use by sectoral regulators of their       competition powers, rather than the regulation powers, where appropriate).
The Round Table 2012 recommended that the regulatory agencies should not       only retain their role as enforcers of the Competition Act (e.g.,       concurrent competition powers), but also make more active use of such       powers.
Regulatory agencies (with the exception of Ofcom) have made scant       use of their competition powers, preferring to use their toolkit of       regulatory enforcement powers to avoid time delays and uncertainty over       the outcome.
At the time of the second Round Table it was clear that the Government       had heeded the earlier advice from the first Round Table: it would not       only retain the competition powers of the regulators, but also expect the       new regime to facilitate concurrency and ensure that regulators use their       competition powers where appropriate as one of its key goals.
This latter       point was discussed in greater detail in the second Round Table where it       was stressed that it would be very difficult for the new competition       regime to work properly and act as a deterrent to competition abuse       practices, unless this was changed.
It was also recommended that clear       guidance should be provided to the sectoral regulators regarding both CA       enforcement and better coordination with the competition authorities, OFT       and CC, in raising and resolving competition cases [5].
These       recommendations are clearly reflected both in the final proposals document       from BIS (March 2012) and in the Bill and the ensuing discussion of it in       Parliament (e.g., see [6] on the strengthening of the concurrency regime       by the Bill on the first day of its discussion in the Lords).
As advocated       in the 2012 and 2013 CCRP events and corresponding summary documents, the       Bill, through clause 45 and a series of amendments in the Lords [6], gives       stronger powers to the CMA to coordinate CA enforcement work and assigns       to sector regulators more explicit duties to use their general competition       powers instead of their sector specific regulatory powers.
The CMA will       co-ordinate CA enforcement work by sector regulators and report on the use       of their concurrent powers.
Finally, the Secretary of State has been       granted a power to remove the concurrent competition enforcement powers of       sector regulators such as Ofgem and Ofwat.
This may lead to the sector       regulators making greater use of their competition powers such as the       referral of MIs to the CMA.
The Round Table 2013 also stressed the importance to the credibility of       the competition regime of retaining both Phase 1 of a merger or market       inquiry (performed by the OFT to explore whether there may be a       competition problem) and Phase 2 (if Phase 1 finds a competition problem,       the merger or market is examined in depth by the CC to establish whether       this is the case and if so to specify remedies) as separate and       independent when both will be performed under the CMA.
BIS's CMA       Transition Project Leader contacted us following the event to note that       this latter point was one of the most critical and enlightening arising       from the Round Table discussion and summary of recommendations and that it       would impact on the application of competition policy by the CMA.
The       decision by BIS to use the CCRP meeting to inform its modus operandi       was stated by Lord Currie during the Round Table 2013.
He indicated that       both he and the BIS team had come to the event in a "listening" mode.
The panel membership and attendance at both events [7] and [8] testify to       our stakeholder dissemination achievement.
The City research and       consequent reputation in this field had a significant impact on the       eventual form of the CMA, especially in relation to the need to       demonstrate independence in merger and market inquiries.
The CCRP's input       was also central in influencing how the CMA will retain and enhance the       role of members of the panel of independent "external" experts.
