     The impact of Professor Devlin's work in this area includes (a) impact on       the way health outcomes are `scored' and used to inform a wide range of       healthcare; and (b) increased use of the measurement of health outcomes in       many health care systems to monitor and improve the performance of health       care providers, quality of services and patient health.
The main pathway to impact has been via the EuroQol Group, a       not-for-profit organisation promoting the measurement of patient reported       health to improve health-care decision-making globally.
It holds the EQ-5D       copyright, licensed to governments and pharmaceutical companies.
Professor       Devlin has held several senior roles in the EuroQol Group and since 2010       is the organisation's scientific Chair.
Following Devlin's methodological       work and its international piloting, the EuroQol Group assumed her       suggested approach for use in all countries (Oppe et al., 2013)       and will replace the EQ-5D value sets currently in use, giving a maximum       impact to Devlin's research.
The EQ-5D is required by NICE in evidence submitted on new technologies.
It is used in the English NHS Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs)       survey on all NHS patients before and after elective surgery and other       medical procedures and in the GP Patient Survey which assesses patients'       experiences of the access and quality of care they receive from their       local GPs, dentists and out-of-hours doctor services.
Other health care       systems also use EQ-5D to measure patient health and its use expands       further as countries such as China and Brazil move toward universal       health.
Value sets based on Devlin's research while she was at City and       subsequently are being produced in the following countries: China, Hong       Kong, Singapore, Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, United Arab Emirates       (UAE), Uruguay, Canada, US, Spain, Germany, The Netherlands, New Zealand,       Denmark, Sweden and Norway as well as in the UK.
In addition to her role       as Principal Investigator on the value set studies in England, the wider       UK and UAE, Professor Devlin is also an advisor to other studies around       the world via her role on the Value Set Working Group, providing technical       support and ensuring consistently high standards.
The value sets being produced in each country have multiple uses: firstly       in health technology appraisal (HTA) decisions about new medicines.
NICE       2013's Methods Review specifically refers to the new value set study led       by Professor Devlin as relevant to NICE technical appraisal for       cost-effectiveness analyses.
The UK value sets are accordingly being       awaited with interest by academics, industry and decision-makers.
Secondly       in the UK EQ-5D data based on the value sets will be used as evidence to       set prices for all new medicines under Value-Based Pricing which will be       introduced in 2014.
Examples of the new EQ-5D uses abroad:            The government of Abu Dhabi is supporting a study to establish a         mapping, specific to the Middle East, of EQ-5D answers to health         valuations for use in HTA decision-making about new medicines.
The         Health Authority will also require all Arab Emirate nationals to         complete the EQ-5D yearly as part of its public health screening         programme (Weqaya).
Professor Devlin has been working with Alberta Health Services in         Canada, which wishes to make routine use of EQ-5D in its health care         system.
This agency is co-funding a value set study.
Professor Devlin runs EQ-5D workshops for the Health Authority of Abu         Dhabi; Alberta Health Services; PHARMAC in New Zealand; the Chinese         National Health Development Centre (introducing EQ-5D to monitor the         quality of rural hospitals); officials in the Ministry of Health in         Sweden (EQ-5D is used in patient registries); a group of Asian         countries' Government officials in Singapore (developing HTA processes         to include the EQ-5D); and health care officials in the Philippines.
Professor Devlin also works extensively with Government organisations to       support their use of EQ-5D and value sets.
She contributed to the 2012       NICE methods review on measuring health outcomes; advises Monitor on how       to take into account patients' evidence when regulating the quality of       health care providers in England; and has a role in the advisory group to       the English DH's PROMs programme.
The impact of this research is highly significant in improving health and       health care decision-making and has had wide reach throughout the UK and       in many other countries.
