     Mayhew and Rickayzen's research has had a significant influence on the       funding system for social care and support in England.
Their work has       affected the development of policy and practice with regard to social care       provision.
It has (i) led to improvements in access to social care at a       local level; (ii) provided a model that could be replicated more widely;       (iii) provided the basis for private finance to make a contribution to       long-term care; (iv) had an effect on the quality and cost-effectiveness       of health and social care services; and (v) stimulated policy debate       within central government, local government and the insurance, pensions       and health care sectors by providing stakeholders with fundamental       actuarial research.
In 2008, Mayhew and Rickayzen's research came to the attention of the       Prime Minister's Strategy Unit (PMSU) and Mayhew and Rickayzen were       appointed to the Department of Health's Private Finance Working Group,       which was investigating existing and new private products for funding LTC       with the aim of increasing their adoption.
Mayhew was later commissioned       to investigate the market potential for customised LTC insurance products.
A key finding was that many more women than men are in institutional care,       but are less able to afford it.
This finding was later cited in the       Department of Health's influential report on protecting adults in social       care which was aimed at NHS commissioners, health service managers and       practitioners with the aim of assisting them with preventing and       responding to neglect of patients in vulnerable situations [1].
The academic-practitioner collaboration of the Private Finance Working       Group generated the Green Paper `Shaping the future of care together'       (July 2009).
The Paper established the principle of a public/private       partnership in which disability linked annuities, equity release and       top-up insurance would play a part.
The preferred option contained within       the Green Paper was based on the concept of a 'National Care Service`,       which was effectively taxation-based.
This was then re-affirmed in the       White Paper, `Building the National Care Service' in 2010 [2].
Mayhew was then invited to undertake a second, broader study by the PMSU       on the economic impacts of increasing longevity and healthy ageing.
This       generalised the impacts of pensions, health care and social care on the UK       economy and proposed various strategies for coping with the imminent       ageing `bulge'.
The report was widely circulated at senior levels in       Whitehall and presented to senior officials.
It is also referenced in       `Building a Society for All Ages' with a foreword from the Prime Minister       (HM Government, 2009b, pp.
15-16): "[Mayhew] shows the economic returns         that healthier, more active later lives could bring in terms of         significant savings in the costs of health care, social care, pensions         and benefits" [3].
In the Spring of 2010, public debates in London and Edinburgh were       organised by The International Longevity Centre (ILC-UK), the leading       think tank on longevity and demographic change in the UK; and the       Actuarial Profession, the professional body which represents actuaries in       the UK.
Both organisations have acknowledged the researchers' contribution       to solving the long-term care funding problems of an ageing population       [4].
Various emails testified to the impact of the ILC-UK presentations       including one from the Director General of Information Services at the       House of Commons saying that it would be of considerable interest to       Parliamentarians and would be made available to them in briefings [5].
Mayhew and Rickayzen's research came to the attention of the City of       London Corporation, the local government body for the City of London.
Mayhew was commissioned to prepare a report setting out his proposals,       published in 2009 as `The role of private finance in paying for long-term       care in an ageing society'.
The findings were presented, in a seminar to       politicians, insurers and care providers and were reported in the media.
The report assisted with the City of London Corporation's response to the       Government Green Paper mentioned above [6].
From 2005 to 2009, Mayhew advised Brent Council on its 'Integrated Care       Co-ordination Service`, a &#163;1.6M pilot funded under the 'Partnerships for       Older People Projects`, to show how early intervention and working with       the private sector could improve lives and reduce the costs of health and       social care.
The results were presented to Phil Hope, then Minister of       State for Care Services with senior health officials and members of the       Council in attendance.
Christabel Shawcross, Brent Council's Assistant       Director for Community Care at the time of the pilot, said: "The         benefits and savings came to the health service, but we are fairly         convinced that this will help social services too in the longer run by         enabling people to stay longer in the community" [7].
The project       was quoted in a House of Lords report as providing a model to be       replicated more widely [11].
In July 2010, the newly-elected coalition Government established the       Commission on Funding of Care and Support, chaired by Sir Andrew Dilnot.
Mayhew was invited to a private meeting with Sir Andrew in September 2010.
Mayhew and Rickayzen's research was used by the Commission in its report,       which specifically mentions the term 'disability-linked annuities' that       Rickayzen originally coined in 2007.
Additionally, the Dilnot report       explicitly refers to tax issues which had been highlighted by Rickayzen       [8].
In October 2010, Mayhew and Rickayzen were asked to present their       findings from Mayhew et al.
(2010) to the Department of Health's       Social Care, Local Government and Care Partnerships Directorate.
In May 2011, Mayhew and Joules Constantinou, Head of Marketing at Gen Re,       the global re-insurance company, led a debate at the Actuarial       Profession's Health and Care Conference.
Mayhew and Rickayzen's research       influenced thinking within the actuarial profession and was cited in the       profession's response to the House of Commons Health Select Committee's       consultation paper 'Inquiry into Social Care` in October 2011 [9].
Mayhew       was appointed to the Office for National Statistics' expert advisory panel       on population projections and its research is cited in an Office for       National Statistics study on the impact of changing longevity on long-term       care expenditure [10].
Mayhew has also been asked to present his ideas to other influential       bodies and individuals, including personal briefings to Rt Hon Stephen       Dorrell MP, Chairman of the House of Commons Health Select Committee, in       February 2011 and Norman Lamb MP, Parliamentary Private Secretary to       Deputy Prime Minister, in April 2011.
Mayhew presented long-term care       proposals in a televised debate hosted by Policy Review TV, sponsored by       Partnership Assurance in March 2011 and at a House of Lords meeting       chaired by Lord Lipsey entitled, `If not Dilnot, what?'
[11].
In November       2012, he gave spoken evidence to the House of Lords' Select Committee on       Demographic Change and Public Services [12].
In 2013, Mayhew addressed the       Society of Later Life Advisors at Westminster, sharing the platform with       leading MPs.
Later in the year he became a member of an industry-led group       advising the Department of Health on private sector financial products.
In 2013, Mayhew launched a paper at the House Lords on PCSBs at an event       chaired by Baroness Greengross of the ILC-UK.
The concept received much       praise from actuaries, the insurance industry, local authorities, and       older people's representatives for its simplicity and innovation [13].
PCSBs have since been presented to Ministers and a paper is being       published by the Geneva Association, an international think tank on       insurance.
National Savings and Investments has also affirmed its interest       in helping to develop PCSBs further.
Mayhew is working with independent       think tank Demos on a new family of affordable equity release products       designed to help people pre-plan their care and he has recently presented       his initial ideas at fringe meetings cat all the main party conferences.
The debate over long-term care costs continues unabated following the       Government announcement of the &#163;72k cap and the introduction of the Care       and Support Bill in Parliament in 2013.
Now a new debate is emerging about       the possibility of integrating health and social care services to which       Mayhew and Rickayzen's research is also contributing.
Their research has       had a profound impact on both debates for over a decade and there is       strong indication that this will continue to be the case in the years to       come.
