     The impact of Mayhew's research can be measured by the commercial success       of the projects and spin-offs that have resulted; by their influence on       the Department of Health, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and the       Greater London Authority (GLA); on professional bodies such as the British       Society for Population Studies; and on other users of statistics, such as       `third sector' organisations, education bodies and law enforcement       agencies.
The research has also influenced statistical thinking in       government agencies around the UK and the decision by the UK Government to       discontinue the national Census.
More than 20 local authorities and health       providers, including Haringey, Enfield, Brent and Tower Hamlets in London,       have drawn on this work to create policy, design services and allocate       resources more effectively and efficiently.
A successful business, `Neighbourhood Knowledge Management' or nkm (www.nkm.org.uk)       has been established on the basis of the new methodologies [1].
Its       website contains information and resources to enable viewers and users to       understand the approach, range of applications and potential impacts.
This new approach to counting populations was used to identify the needs       of six local authorities preparing for the 2012 Olympics and in the       post-Olympic legacy period [2].
The research was timed to coincide with       the 2011 Census to enable fair comparisons to be made between the two       methodologies.
The main findings were that administrative counts using       Mayhew's methodology were 3.5% higher than GLA estimates and 9.5% higher       than ONS estimates for the same year.
The study was used to inform       residents of their population size, to guide Borough housing policy for       the next five years and to monitor health and wellbeing under the Joint       Strategic Needs Assessment of the Primary Care Trusts.
Evidence for changes in approaches to data administration stimulated by       Mayhew's work can be found in the media, Council Chambers papers, local       authority websites and Parliamentary records.
For example, a recent letter       to the London Borough of Brent Council printed in The Guardian       drew attention to the gross miscalculation of population figures by the       ONS that underestimated the population of London by around 300,000.
In the       case of deprived boroughs like Brent, this resulted in the Council       receiving hundreds of millions of pounds less from the Government over the       last five years, despite constant representations supported by scholarly       research by Les Mayhew [3].
Another letter also quoting Mayhew's research       stated that the problem of under-counting and its effect on the local       government Formula Grant system allocations affects all London Boroughs       [4].
Mayhew carried out an evaluation of the Partnerships for Older People       Projects (Popps) scheme, which tested the effectiveness of different ways       of supporting older people to continue living independently in the       community.
Using administrative data sources held locally, his team       tracked older people for a full 12 months before and after they were       supported and showed that for each person supported, between 14 and 29       hospital bed days a year and between three and eight A&amp;E attendances       were saved.
If replicated nationally, the Popps scheme could save 3% of       the NHS budget [5].
In February 2012, the London Borough of Waltham Forest published a guide       to population sources referring to Mayhew's administrative data population       estimation methodology.
The report compares Mayhew's method with other       major sources of population data: the Census 2011, the ONS mid- year       estimates and the GLA population projections.
The guide states: "For         internal strategic planning, this is the dataset to use since it is by         far the most up to date and accurate source of population data that we         have.
The ethnic breakdown is also unique and provides a far broader         breakdown of ethnicities than those in the census" [6].
Mayhew's research has significantly influenced the information strategies       of several government departments.
For example, a recent strategy paper by       the Department of Health sets a ten-year framework for transforming       information for the NHS, public health and social care.
The paper       highlights examples of best practice already taking place across England.
One of these is Mayhew's work with the London Borough of Tower Hamlets       that integrated health care, social care and population data to shape the       commissioning and delivery of services [7]., According to the       Tower Hamlets Director of Public Health, Somen Bannerjee, the Mayhew Tower       Hamlet project "enables us to put a cost on local health inequalities         and provides the evidence base for different and more innovative         interventions and delivery structures" [8].
Mayhew and his research team have achieved a significant and enduring       impact on public policy and service delivery by tackling many of the       problems that exist with gathering demographic population data.
Addressing       key criticisms of current methods of estimating the population in the       2008, in the House of Commons' Treasury Committee Report `Counting the       population', Mayhew was able to illustrate with examples how the       methodologies employed by nkm could overcome these criticisms.
In written       evidence to the Committee, the London Borough of Brent reports: "Our         best estimate is that the ONS estimates currently under-count Brent's         population by in excess of 17,000, based on the data matching exercise         carried out by Professor Mayhew.
The local government Formula Grant         system allocates approximately &#163;500 for each additional person in the         borough.
A difference of 17,000 therefore amounts to an estimated &#163;8.5M         loss in the needs element of Formula Grant" [9].
In September 2012, the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee       published the report `The Census and social science'.
The report followed       an inquiry by the Science and Technology Committee that sought evidence       for the potential impact on social science research of the ending of the       Census, with a view to the recommendations feeding into the ONS' `Beyond       2011 Programme'.
The report made extensive references to evidence provided       by Mayhew, for example, "We consider Professor Mayhew's evidence as         confirmation that there is a credible alternative to the census for the         purposes of local government" [10].
Following the Science and Technology Committee's report, the ONS       established `Beyond 2011', a review to identify the best method of       providing small area population and socio-demographic statistics as an       alternative to running a traditional ten-year Census in 2021.
Commentary       by the ONS in May 2013 indicated that an initial assessment had found that       of the six options under consideration, Option 5 (Administrative data       linkages, plus an annual circa 1% coverage survey with a one-off circa 10%       coverage survey in 2021 to validate the method) was the most       cost-effective and produced the best quality data [11].
This reflects       Mayhew's research.
Since then Mayhew has presented his approach to       statistical offices in Northern Ireland, to health providers in Scotland       and at the British Society for Populations Studies conferences in England.
He was also invited to join the National Population Projections Expert       Advisory Panel, the body of experts that advises the ONS on the       appropriate assumptions to use for national population projections [12].
The Mayhew approach has provided local areas, councils, primary care       trusts and commissioning bodies with a more flexible, accurate and timely       evidence base for identifying needs, informing policy and designing       services.
The range of clients and applications established over this       12-year period is testimony to the impact the approach has had on local       people and services.
In total, Mayhew's innovative work using local       administrative data has resulted in an additional &#163;60M going to local       authorities in central government grants and lottery funding.
