     By 2011 in the UK, around 27,000 people were being subjected to       immigration detention each       year, at a cost of &#163;130M.
Trends at a global level also suggest increasing       use of the practice over       the past 30 years.
During 2011, for example, the USA detained 429,000       immigrants under such       powers, at a cost of $1.7B.
In response, a large number of NGOs worldwide       are seeking to       improve detention practices.
In addition, government officials and judges       often have to rule on       detention cases.
Publication of the research led Wilsher to be approached       by external       organisations and government bodies in the UK and abroad for advice.
The       research enabled       Wilsher to help create new standards and influence reforms and campaigning       to improve the rights       of detainees through a number of routes:  	  The UK Supreme Court cited Wilsher's work in the landmark decision in       A and Others v         Secretary of State for the Home Department (known as the `Belmarsh       decision')5, one of       the most important cases in recent British and global human rights law.
It       ruled that       immigration powers could not be used to detain foreigners without trial       simply on suspicion       of them having connections to terrorist groups.
This led the UK Government       to repeal part       of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act and rethink its       counter-terrorism strategy.
It is       extremely rare for an academic to be cited in the UK courts.
The case has       been cited by       other judges in, for example, the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong       and India on over       150 occasions when courts have had to decide upon the appropriate limits       upon       immigration detention.
Wilsher's work was also relied upon in submissions       by Justice in       another recent case before the Supreme Court R (appn) Lumba and Mighty         v Secretary of         State [2011] UKSC 12, which ruled on the long-term detention of       foreign national criminals       post-sentence when the Court ruled that detention could not be based upon       secret       unpublished policies.
A joint report by HM Inspectorate of Prisons and Independent Chief       Inspector of Borders       and Immigration &#8212; `The effectiveness and impact of immigration detention       casework'       (December 2012, pp.
30-35) - drew extensively on Wilsher's work.
This       report was       prepared in order to research and suggest reforms to the detention of       foreign national       prisoners pending their deportation to reduce cost and needless       deprivation of liberty.
It       argued that non-cooperation by detainees with their removal should be       dealt with by       criminal law and not administrative detention.
This was one of the main       arguments of the       author's book that was extensively quoted.
The Home Office response       accepted most of       the recommendations of the report, in particular the need to resolve cases       during the       criminal sentence rather than using administrative detention.6      In 2010 Wilsher was approached to act as an expert consultant to the       Turkish Ministry of       Interior to assist in drafting their rule-book for immigration detention       facilities.
This involved       detailed discussion and redrafting of the standards that bind detention       centres in Turkey,       which is a major transit route for migrants.
Its detention centres have       been heavily criticised       by the European Commissioner for Human Rights, Thomas Hammarberg, for       lengthy and       unlawful detention.
Wilsher noted unlawful areas in current Turkish       practice that did not       specify time limits to detention.
The rules were changed, which led to       detainees having       stronger legal guarantees against arbitrary detention.
The final       publication, Refugees,         asylum-seekers and illegal migrants (2011)7, Turkish       Ministry of the Interior No.
687,       contained an important set of performance criteria requiring detention       centres to show that       all detentions are justified on an ongoing basis.
In 2010--2011, Wilsher was approached to act as a member of an expert       committee       formed by the Equal Rights Trust (ERT), a leading anti-discrimination       charity, in the drafting       of their report Unravelling anomaly: detention, discrimination and the         protection needs of         stateless persons and of their follow-up Guidelines to Protect         Stateless Persons from         Arbitrary Detention (June 2012)8.
According to the lead       author and Director of ERT, Dr       Wilsher was highly influential in shaping the guidelines to reflect       international best practice       and contributed to a reconsideration of the way that NGOs promote the       rights of detained       stateless persons (those who have no nationality, or no effective       nationality, and therefore       do not benefit from the protection of any state but are also vulnerable to       being detained for       long periods as a result of the difficulty in identifying a country that       will accept them and       cooperate with proceedings).
Previously, NGOs had unconvincingly attempted       to align this       group with refugees and asylum-seekers.
Wilsher drew their attention to       wider       jurisprudence to show that this was not necessary.
The launch event       involved the ERT       President Sir Bob Hepple (a world-renowned discrimination lawyer), Sir       Stephen Sedley (a       retired Court of Appeal judge) and representatives from United Nations       (UN) High       Commissioner Refugees.
One commentator said, `These Guidelines fill a         significant gap in         international law standards, and reflect the weight of expert opinion of         how some of the         most vulnerable people on earth should be treated under international         human rights law'         (Colm O'Cinneide, Ireland; Vice-President, European Committee       on Social Rights).
The       Guidelines have been used as training materials by the International       Detention Coalition       (the leading NGO in the field, with 300 member groups drawn from 50       countries) at their       regional civil society training workshops in Asia, Africa and Europe.
They       have also been       used by the Asia Pacific Refugee Rights Network (the leading NGO in the       region, which co-       ordinates 140 member groups).
In 2010 Wilsher was approached by Bail for Immigration Detainees, the       leading UK charity       dedicated to policy reform in the field of detention.
It liaises closely       with the Home Office       and the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal.
The author provided guidance on       their research       study A nice judge on a good day: immigration bail and the right to         liberty, a large study of       immigration bail practice by judges across the UK tribunal system.9       Wilsher was able to       draw upon his research into the working of the UK bail system to help       design the bail       hearing observation framework that the report relied upon for its       findings.
The report was       used as evidence in discussions with the judiciary and the Home Office.
The result was a       detailed new set of Bail Guidance for Immigration Judges, issued in 2012.10       This is binding       on judges in the UK courts when they are deciding whether to release       immigrants from       detention.
The new Guidance reflects the fundamental rights contained in       UN international       standards that require detention to be neither unnecessary nor too       lengthy.
The author was       able to contribute further to the development and application       of the new bail guidance in his       role as a judge at the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal.
In 2011-2012 Wilsher was approached to work extensively with the       Global Detention       Project (GDP) based at the Graduate Institute in Geneva.
This is a unique       international       research and campaigning body that is funded by the Soros Foundation.
Its       goal is to       monitor detention at a global level and provide information for NGOs to       use in campaigning       and policy change.
It has the most extensive reach of any global research       body in this field,       with an expanding research base that covers some 50 countries.
In 2012       Wilsher presented       some of his research findings at the GDP to an invited expert audience,       including staff from       the UN High Commission for Refugees.
He has since helped GDP to design a       framework       for assessing and comparing detention centres across countries by       reference to legal       standards.
The aim is to produce a map of detention practice.
Wilsher used       his research       findings on the nature of different detention regimes to help compile       agreed and relevant       indices to measure detention, such as duration, access to judicial review       and basic       standards of care.
The database will help researchers and NGOs worldwide       to influence       detention policy by giving them the best and most consistent dataset.
The       data categories       have been compiled and the data collection is continuing.11  	       This research helped to provide better access to justice for immigration       detainees who are often       vulnerable and ostracised.
It also led to greater accountability of       governments in the UK and       Turkey in relation to their detention policies.
This was achieved by       influencing courts, officials and       NGOs to change the legal framework and policies surrounding detention.
A       broader impact was       also felt in a number of courts in Commonwealth, which used the research       in deciding cases       relating to the detention of immigrants.
