     Continuing the historic impact of earlier editions of both The Modern         Law of Evidence and Blackstone's Criminal Practice, the       research in this case study has made a direct and material contribution to       the awareness, capability, performance and understanding of members of the       judiciary in reaching their decisions and in directing the jury.
The       extent of this impact can be gauged by the nature and variety of cases in       which it has occurred.
The impact in appellate decisions is of particular       importance because when material is cited with approval, it becomes a part       of the law and a binding precedent.
a) in the United Kingdom     Blackstone's Criminal Practice has been cited with approval and/or       applied by judges in the UK in relation to:            when it is appropriate to give the jury a `Lucas' direction (a         direction to the jury on lies told by the accused) in R v Marsh         [2009] EWCA Crim 2696, an appeal against conviction of murder, Court of         Appeal, Criminal Division at [66]       what types of evidence may constitute `supporting material' for the         purposes of `Makanjuola' warnings (a warning to the jury about acting on         the evidence of impugned or unreliable witnesses) in R v Brown         [2009] NICC 21, a murder trial in Northern Ireland at [104].
Blackstone's Criminal Practice has also had an impact on the way       in which judges direct juries.
Crown Court judges in England and Wales, in       deciding how to direct the jury, make use of the Bench Book issued       by the Judicial College, the body overseen by the Lord Chief Justice and       with responsibility for the provision of training for judicial       office-holders.
The Bench Book contains `model' directions to       juries as well as advice on the law of criminal evidence and in both       respects it expressly refers to and relies upon Blackstone's Criminal         Practice.
It does so on the subjects of circumstantial evidence,       expert evidence, corroboration and the special need for caution, lies, and       conducting a view [1].
These references assist judges to ensure that       juries are directed on these evidential issues as clearly and consistently       as possible.
They also benefit judges in their understanding of the law of       evidence in these areas and therefore in their capability and performance.
Blackstone's Criminal Practice has also had an impact on educators       and students that extends significantly beyond the submitting higher       education institution, being among the practitioner works regarded by the       Bar Standards Board as an authoritative and reliable source and therefore       listed in its mandatory reading lists for `Criminal Litigation, Evidence       and Sentencing' specified for use by all Bar Professional Training Course       providers [2].
b) internationally     The Modern Law of Evidence has been cited with approval and/or       applied by judges overseas in relation to:            the principle that adverse inferences can be drawn from failure to         give evidence, in Presho v Doohan [2010] 1EHC 148, High Court,         Ireland at [4]       the way in which the judge should direct the jury about the dangers of         visual identification evidence, in Maitland Reckford v R [2010]         JMCA 40, Court of Appeal, Jamaica at [25], an appeal against conviction         of murder, and Raymond Hunter v R [2011] JMCA Crim 20, Court of         Appeal, Jamaica at [29].
The underpinning research of The Modern Law of Evidence and Blackstone's         Criminal Practice has also changed and benefited the awareness,       capacity, performance and understanding of those engaged in reforming the       law of criminal evidence in China.
Professor Keane's international reputation as the author/co-author of       these authoritative sources led to his selection by the Great Britain       China Centre (a public body that promotes understanding between China and       the UK), on behalf of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), as the       only non-Chinese scholar to participate in a project to be carried out by       the Centre for Criminal Procedure Reform (CCPR), Renmin University,       Beijing.
Professor Keane's participation was funded by the FCO from its       Human Rights and Democracy Fund.
The project related to coerced confessions and their exclusion, the use       of `concealed evidence' and the use of evidence obtained through special       investigative measures such as tapping phones, using undercover police       officers and entrapment.
The aim of the project included the encouragement       of a more uniform understanding among the Chinese judiciary of how the       rules in these areas should be interpreted and implemented.
The aim was       also to draft proposals for the National People's Congress, for reform of       the Criminal Procedure Law in order to enhance rectitude of       decision-making and minimise the risk of miscarriages of justice and the       negative international reputation that they engendered (famously, for       example, in the case in which the `victim' of a murder walked back into       his village after the trial that had resulted in the conviction and       execution of the accused).
The project was led by Professor Chen Weidong,       a legislation expert consultant with responsibility for advising the       legislative affairs committee of the National People's Congress.
Drawing       materially and distinctly upon his own research in the relevant areas,       Professor Keane made two trips to Beijing (in June and December 2011).
He       gave written and oral advice to Professor Weidong, to members of the CCPR       (including specific advice on the report of its empirical research), and       to a large number of senior judges from the Supreme People's Court and       from the Intermediate People's Courts of various Provinces.
The project achieved a number of important outcomes: a comprehensive       analysis of the problems relating to implementation of the relevant rules       in the Chinese legal system; practical suggestions for judicial       application in pilot courts and, most significantly, adoption by the       National People's Congress of some of its most important recommendations       for reform of the law.
The amendments were included in the revised       Criminal Procedure Law which was adopted in March 2012 and came into force       on 1st January 2013.
The most important of the amendments make provision for:     (i) the right to appoint a lawyer when first interrogated (Art 33)     (ii) the duty to inform a suspect of that right (Art 34)     (iii) no person to be forced to prove his own guilt (Art 50)     (iv) in cases where there is no confession, facts to establish guilt to       be proved beyond reasonable doubt (Art 53)     (v) criminal prosecutions to be instigated where the collection of       evidence involves the commission of a crime (Art 55)     (vi) in cases where it is in dispute whether evidence was obtained       illegally, the burden to be on the prosecution to prove that it was not so       obtained (Art 57)     (vii)where the court believes it to be necessary for a witness to appear       before the court to testify, power to compel any such witness, except a       spouse, parent or child of the accused (Arts 187 and 188).
These changes are modelled on the English law of evidence advocated by       Professor Keane to members of the CCPR and others (detailed above).
The       changes, including in particular the adoption of such fundamental rights       as the privilege against self-incrimination and the right of access to an       independent lawyer before interrogation, amount to a major re-balancing of       the Chinese criminal justice system in favour of the accused.
The changes       also strengthen the hand of the judiciary vis-&#224;-vis the police       authorities and the procurator's office: for the first time, a trial judge       has the power to compel all but immediate family of the accused to give       evidence, a power of special importance when the judge wants to go beyond       the written statements of those who arrested and interrogated the accused.
The changes will improve the quality of the administration of Chinese       criminal justice by ensuring fairer criminal trials and reducing the       potential for miscarriages of justice.
[In the case of all references in this section to co-authored research,       the citations relate to material produced exclusively by Professor Keane.]
