     The Initiative on Impunity and the Rule of Law produced a positive impact       on public engagement, policy-making and civil society and influenced       international legislation and NGO practices concerning human rights,       freedom of information and protection of journalists.
This was visible       during the June 2011 `Working Conference of the Initiative on Impunity and       the Rule of Law', held at City, which was attended by many stakeholders       including: senior members of international and intergovernmental       organisations such as UNESCO, the Organization for Security and       Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Inter-American Committee on Human       Rights; and journalists' federations and expert NGOs such as Amnesty,       Article 19, Journalistes en Danger, Reporters without Borders and the Red       Cross.
Participants included the Assistant Director-General of UNESCO,       Janis Karklins and the Director of Human Rights of the UK Foreign Office,       Susan Hyland.
UNESCO considered the conference to be a major international       and interdisciplinary event aimed at developing new global initiatives       intended to protect journalists and end the impunity of those who       threaten, assault or murder them.
UNESCO stated on its website (2011) that       the Initiative `has already received the backing of Archbishop Desmond       Tutu, a long-time advocate for the worldwide protection of journalists'       rights'.
Archbishop Tutu also sent a special message to the conference.
The conference marked the launch of a topical report by the New York-based       NGO, Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) which revealed that 13       countries around the world had five or more unsolved cases of murdered       journalists committed during the past decade.
The conference attracted the       sponsorship described in section 3.
UNESCO made use of the Initiative's London Conference as a preparatory       meeting for its Inter-Agency Meeting in Paris and stated on its website:       `As a first step towards this event [the UN Inter-Agency meeting], a       meeting entitled "Safety and Protection for Journalists: A Responsibility       for the World" was organised in June 2011 by the Initiative on Impunity       and the Rule of Law.
The conclusions drawn from this meeting will be       presented at the UN Inter-Agency Meeting in Paris.'
Research and policy       proposals prepared by the City research team became reference materials       for this meeting.
Archbishop Tutu's speech at the conference raised       awareness about violence against media workers throughout society and       appealed to world governments for urgent intervention.
Draghici and Woods       delivered proposals based on previous research (the scoping exercise)       carried out by Xenos, to strengthen existing UN mechanisms for increasing       co-operation and preventing attacks against journalists.
The Initiative produced a valuable impact on public engagement by       creating an international platform of academic and legal expertise       comprising governmental and non-governmental experts from organisations       (including International Bar Associations, Index on Censorship, OSCE,       Columbia Law School, Saferworld, the UK House of Lords, The Salzburg       Global Seminar and UN, Media Legal Defence Initiative and International       News Safety Institute) to seek acceptance for fighting violence against       journalists and the right of citizens to be informed.
A list of relevant       resources and working papers is accessible on the Initiative website.
The City Law School (represented by Draghici) was subsequently invited to       participate in the Paris conference at UNESCO Headquarters in September       2011, an invitation-only policy-making event.
The Legal Instruments Study       reached a significantly wider number of beneficiaries in this context,       including state delegations from all geopolitical areas of the world,       global and regional inter-governmental organisations and representatives       of cross-border civil society.
City's research, by filling a gap in the       legal resources available, drew the attention of international       organisations to the deficit in implementation measures.
It further       supported the priorities of the UN Plan of Action, aimed inter alia       at assisting countries in the development of legislation and mechanisms       compliant with international rules and essential for the creation of a       free and safe environment for journalists and media workers in conflict       and non-conflict zones.
This is promoted by UNESCO as one of its       Communication and Information Themes [8].
The participation of academics       in the consultation process of inter-governmental organisation is       exceptional and indicative of the impact of this research.
Woods was also       contacted by Mr Ian White on behalf of UNESCO UK in August 2013 to comment       on the draft response by the UK National Commission for UNESCO to the       proposed UN Plan of Action for the Safety of Journalists.
Draghici subsequently received further invitations to comment on and       contribute to the UN inter-agency implementation plan.
She took part in       the 2nd Inter-Agency Meeting on `The Safety of Journalists and       the Issue of Impunity' held in Vienna in November 2012, where she provided       information on the main streams of City's work on safety of journalists       and on media rights.
She also raised awareness of the CLJJ       interdisciplinary conference designed to celebrate World Press Freedom       Day, which took place on 3rd May 2013 [9].
This conference,       entitled `Obstacles to Free Speech and the Safety of Journalists', was an       activity which formed part of and is specifically referenced in the UNESCO       Implementation Strategy 2013-2014 [10].
At the conference, Draghici shared       the results of further research carried out with Woods since the 2011       report in a presentation entitled `Individual Torts and Collective       Victims: The Societal Impact of Crimes Against Journalists in       International Law'.
The legal study also provided a useful tool in shaping the advocacy       strategy of international non-governmental organisations.
By invitation of       Mr Jim Boumelha, the President of the International Federation of       Journalists (IFJ), Woods gave a presentation on 26th October       2012 on the research findings at a one-day Summit in Nuremberg on the       safety of journalism aimed at discussing the IFJ future strategy, which       gathered inter alia IFJ members and representatives of UNESCO and       the International Red Cross.
Mr Boumelha subsequently responded to City's       invitation to take part in the May 2013 conference, indicating the       interest of rights campaigners in continuing the exchange of information       and expertise with The City Law School.
The consultation proved crucial to shaping policy interventions and the       coordination of inter-agency mechanisms.
It suggested high-level expert       consultations for the Austrian government at the UN Human Rights Council       and informed the final UN Action Plan to combat violence against       journalists on how to monitor progress at both national and international       levels.
This Action Plan, prepared during the first UN Inter-Agency       Meeting on `The Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity', will       establish an inter-agency mechanism to monitor progress and assist       countries in the development of legislation favouring freedom of       expression.
Evidence of the City contribution can be identified in the       UNESCO Implementation Strategy 2013-2014) [10].
