     Genes identified by our research are now regularly tested for in the UK       and around the world.
The UCL Hospital (UCLH) inherited disease service is       the largest of its kind in the UK, seeing more than 20% of the national       caseload.
Between 2008 and 2013, a total of 745 patients with       cardiomyopathy underwent diagnostic genetic testing at our genetic clinic       [a].
The benefits to patients are: more accurate description of       prognosis; diagnosis in family members; and, if needed, prevention of       sudden death through the implantation of defibrillator devices       (implantable cardioverter defibrillators, ICD).
Genetic testing has also       been shown to be highly cost-effective in patients with cardiomyopathy [b].
We have worked with expert groups to produce international guidelines for       genetic testing.
In 2008, Elliott co-chaired the statement development       group (of which McKenna was also a member), which produced an HRUK       position statement on clinical indications for genetic testing in familial       sudden cardiac death syndromes [c].
In 2010, we contributed to       guidelines issued by the European Society of Cardiology on genetic       counselling and testing in cardiomyopathies [d].
These referenced       our work in relation to predictive diagnosis in asymptomatic relatives,       and recommended screening for genes we had identified.
In 2011, McKenna       co-authored a consensus statement from the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) and       European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) on genetic testing for the       channelopathies and cardiomyopathies [e].
Work from the group was       heavily referenced in this document.
AVRC: Genetic testing of families with ARVC is particularly       important.
Early disease manifestations may be missed using conventional       imaging protocols although individuals remain at risk of sudden cardiac       death.
Our detailed work examining the relationship between genetic       mutations and clinical presentation has led to a new European       classification for cardiomyopathies and a clinically-based approach to       diagnosis that emphasises disease specific presentations and outcomes,       which was outlined in position statements from the European Society of       Cardiology in 2008 and 2013 (to which Elliott contributed) [f].
Our work studying the expression of genetic mutations in ARVC directly       informed the development of new diagnostic criteria for the disease that       have resulted in improved detection of disease [g].
HCM: The risk stratification algorithms we developed for HCM have       been used to guide ICD implantation.
Since 2008, 395 patients with HCM       have undergone ICD implantation using the risk tools developed by our       group [a].
The benefit to patients is prevention of sudden cardiac       death, as the device senses a heart rhythm disturbance and can restore       normal rhythm.
In 2010, these algorithms were incorporated into a position       statement issued by the specialist society, Heart Rhythm UK, on clinical       indications for ICDs in adult patients with familial sudden cardiac death       syndromes [h].
Our group is also leading a large European cohort       study that aims to construct clinical tools for estimating individual       patients' risk for disease-related complications [i].
The first       risk model was published in October 2013, and will be included in new       European treatment guidelines due for publication in 2014.
Lamin AC gene mutations: Our work in patients with heart muscle       disease caused by Lamin AC gene mutations showed that most people who       inherit the gene develop disease with a predictable natural history       beginning with atrial rhythm disturbance in early adulthood with       subsequent progression to heart block, potentially fatal ventricular       problems and finally to progressive heart failure.
Early recognition of       these characteristic stages of disease facilitates much earlier diagnosis       for patients and families and has allowed us to develop predictive models       that identify patients who might benefit from early treatment with       anticoagulants and prophylactic ICD implantation.
Based on our research,       new European Society of Cardiology guidelines for cardiac pacing include a       recommendation for ICD implantation in patients with Lamin AC mutations.
Since 2008, 22 families with definite Lamin AC mutations have been       identified in the UCL screening clinic [a].
Improvement of cardiac services: Throughout the course of our       research, we have engaged with policy-makers and specialist organisations       to translate our findings into better policy, service design and       commissioning of specialist services for these conditions.
In 2005,       McKenna co-chaired the consultation process of the UK National Service       Framework (NSF) on Arrhythmia and Sudden Death, leading to the publication       of a new chapter (Chapter 8) of this framework.
Building on the work being       done at the UCL clinic at the time, this document recommended that       evaluation of families should take place in a dedicated clinic with staff       who are trained in diagnosis, management and support and with genetic       counselling and further testing available if appropriate.
McKenna       subsequently produced a Proposal for the Establishment of Inherited         Cardiovascular Conditions Centres which was endorsed by the       Department of Health (DH) and, according to the PHG Foundation in 2009,       was "Described as a `blueprint' for services and quoted many times in         DH meetings" [j].
These recommendations have remained key       elements of the NHS England commissioning framework for specialist       commissioning of inherited cardiovascular disease services that has set       out the framework for screening clinics [k].
Work with patient groups: We have also worked closely with patient       groups on multiple public and patient engagement initiatives.
McKenna and       Elliott have both been key speakers at patient days organised by the       Cardiomyopathy Association, and McKenna also wrote a review of       cardiomyopathy for this charity [l].
McKenna is a patron of the       charity Cardiac Risk in the Young, and has assisted this organisation with       screening for hereditary cardiac diseases [m].
McKenna and Elliott       are both on the board of advisors for the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy       Association.
McKenna's research is directly cited on the website of this       organisation, and he was worked with them, for example, to deliver       professional education days highlighting the risks of sudden death due to       HCM in young athletes [n].
