     (1) EC officials and humanitarian aid agency representatives based         their discussion of EU and humanitarian policy options in Syria and         their ultimate recommendations to UN officials in Geneva on the findings         of a policy options paper prepared by Hollis.
In addition, senior UK         military planners incorporated Hollis's findings in contingency planning         (April 2012; April 2013) following her invited participation in         brainstorming sessions.
The fact that the EU Institute for Security       Studies (EUISS) and the UK military asked Hollis to contribute to their       deliberations derived in part from their acquaitance with her work through       her prior participation in the deliberations of these bodies and       decision-makers.
Specifically, between 2008 and 2012 she contributed to       several policy workshops and publications of the EUISS in Paris; presented       research findings to military service personnel on a series of Ministry of       Defence short courses on the Middle East run by The Department for Peace       Studies at Bradford University; and served on a six-person international       support team helping a group of European elder statesmen/women, led by       Lord Patten and former French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine, to develop       policy initiatives for the EU regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
It was on the basis of this track record and access that Hollis was       invited by the Director of the EUISS in late 2011 to formulate a policy       options paper for humanitarian intervention in Syria, commissioned for the       EC.
Her paper outlined three scenarios for the Syria crisis and their       implications.
The EUISS then used those scenarios to frame a discussion       with EC officials and humanitarian agency staff in Paris on 20th       February 2012.
The findings of that discussion were then used as the basis       for a follow-up discussion with UN officials in Geneva, which in turn fed       into the UN initiative headed by Kofi Annan to seek a diplomatic solution       to the Syria crisis.
The impact of Hollis's work was in informing the       discussion about scenarios and thence contingencies and possibilities.
In       a similar vein, when the UK military was engaged in developing contingency       plans for military and/or humanitarian intervention in Syria (2012-2013)       Hollis was one of five UK academics with Middle East expertise to       participate in two brainstorming sessions of senior British military       personnel in April 2012 and April 2013 specifically to provide input on       the likely regional repercussions of such intervention.
(2) Research findings expanded UK-Turkish dialogue and contributed to         the success of a key forum (Tatlidil, Istanbul,         October 2012) aimed at deepening bilateral relations between the two         countries.
For the purpose of developing a closer bilateral       UK-Turkey relationship, senior parliamentarians, led by Jack Straw on the       UK side, set up a Forum called the Tatlidil, which first met at       Ditchley Park in October 2011.
Hollis was one of the invited participants       and during that meeting she learned that the Turkish delegation would have       liked more input about UK policy in the Middle East to parallel their       input on Turkish policy.
Consequently, at the second meeting of the Tatlidil       (12-14 October 2012 in Istanbul) Hollis presented a summation of her       research findings on the British response to the Arab uprisings which       served as a counterpart to a parallel Turkish policy presentation.
This       prompted a lively debate about UK actions, choices and lessons learned       which was pronounced by participants the most vigorous and engaging       discussion of the whole Forum.
Hollis was commended (among others) for her       input by former UK Ambassador to Turkey Sir David Logan and Labour Shadow       Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander.
She helped to expand and progress the       bilateral dialogue and with it bilateral relations.
The Turkish Ambassador       to the UK attested to this when he specifically asked Hollis to be sure to       save the dates of the 3rd Tatlidil (November 2013) so       that she could again be present.
(3) The 2013 Foreign Policy Report of the Foreign &amp; Commonwealth       Office (FCO) on the `Balance of Competences' between UK and EU was       substantiated with evidence from Hollis' research.
In 2012 the UK       Government began preparation of its `Balance of Competences' review to       inform debate and thence decision-making on UK membership of the EU.
Hollis was one of the individuals invited by the FCO (7th       December 2012) to submit evidence to inform the part of the review devoted       to foreign policy and to participate in a preparatory consultation at the       FCO on 16th January 2013.
Hollis made several inteventions at       the consultation meeting to clarify the questions that the FCO wished her       to address in the evidence submitted.
The evidence she subsequently       submitted drew directly on research undertaken on the substance and impact       of UK and EU policies in the Mediterranean neighbourhood.
This evidence       was quoted four times in the Review of the Balance of Competences         between the United Kingdom and the European Union Foreign Policy       (July 2013, pages 45, 46 and 47) in its Case Study on the `Arab Spring'.
It served to substantiate the argument advanced there that the EU has       added value to the pursuit of UK policy and interests.
Of the 64       `Academics, Thinktankers and Other Individuals' who submitted evidence for       this report, 13 were academics, representing ten UK universities (with two       each from the Universities of Oxford, Birmingham and City University       London).
Hollis and Professor Alan Riley (The City Law School) were City's       two contributors.
Regarding UK policy in response to the Arab Spring (2010-2012), the FCO       and Department for International Development (DFID) have set up an       Advisory Group to provide feedback on their Arab Partnership Initiative.
In June 2012 Hollis was invited to serve on the Arab Partnership Advisory       Group.
Her contributions to the biannual meetings of this group (at the       FCO) have drawn directly on her research on UK and wider EU initatives to       promote reform in the `Arab Spring' countries.
This work has informed the       government assessments of the value and limitations of what their       partnership can achieve.
(4) Research informed and shaped media coverage and civil society debate       about Arab uprisings during the period 2009-2012.
Hollis is frequently       invited to give expert analysis on broadcast media on the basis of her       research and expert reputation.
Between 2011 and 2013 she presented her       analysis and offered commentary on BBC Radio 4 (The Today Programme,         Start the Week, Any Questions), the BBC News Channel, Sky News, the       BBC World Service, Al Jazeera, Voice of Russia Radio and TV, Radio France       International, LBC, BBC Radio Scotland, BBC Radio Wales; RTE (Ireland),       British Forces Broadcasting (BFBS), CNN, CNBC, CBC (Canada), Austrian       Radio, ABC (Australia), and National Public Radio (USA).
She received 855       mentions in the media between December 2010 and December 2012.
Foreign       Office Minister Alastair Burt was prompted to invite Hollis to join a       group of specialists for a brainstorming about the implications for       Britain of the Arab uprisings on 8th February 2011 as a result       of having heard her comment on The Today Programme.
Hollis's       contributions to media output have contributed to a wider public       understanding of and engagement with her areas of research expertise,       including the Middle East and the Syrian conflict.
Hollis has also been requested to provide commentary for The         Huffington Post, The International Herald Tribune, The         Guardian, The Sunday Times, LA Times and Reuters.
Hollis also gave a number of public lectures and talks to general       audiences outside academia, including school groups, civil society       activist groups and participants in current affairs meetings for       non-academics.
