     Improving Quality of Country Information and Public Debate in Asylum         Decision-Making: Dr       McDowell's research on conflict and asylum-migration (the latter term,       coined by him, recognises       that asylum movements often follow similar patterns to economic migration       in decision-making,       routes, use of agents and destination countries) has addressed the asylum       process in the UK,       Europe and Australia as well as return and settlement strategies and       asylum diaspora politics.
His       reputation as an expert in this area along with his role at ICAR, which       became the UK's leading       provider of authoritative information on asylum, led to Dr McDowell       providing academic oversight of       research undertaken by the Asylum and Destitution Working Group of the UK       Centre for Social       Justice and by the Independent Asylum Commission which reviewed the UK       asylum system       between October 2006 and July 2008.
He also received a Ministerial invitation to sit on the UK Home Office       Advisory Group on Country       Information (the IAGCI, subsequently advisory to the Independent Chief       Inspector of the UK Border       Agency).
Following two re-invitations, he has served on the IAGCI since       2007 until now and has       applied his research knowledge and country expertise on Sri Lanka (a       country that has generated       significant numbers of displaced people) to improving the quality,       timeliness, accuracy and       comprehensiveness of human rights information available to decision-makers       in the UK Home       Office Asylum Division.
In association with this role he was commissioned       to undertake research       into the use of Country Information by asylum case workers, the results of       which guided the       continuing review of country studies.
The UK Border Agency has recognised       that the significant       improvement in its reports over several years is in large part a result of       the work of the IAGCI.
The       UN High Commissioner for Refugees, which is represented on the Group, has       congratulated the       Independent Chief Inspector on the successes of the IAGCI, most notably       the improvements in       decision quality and fairness of asylum application outcomes.
The main beneficiaries of these activities are the Chief Inspector of the       UK Border Agency, the UK       Home Office, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the       European Union's       European Asylum Support Office (EASO), asylum case-workers making use of       better Country       Information and asylum applicants (as a result of improved information       guiding decisions on their       cases).
McDowell's research on media reporting on asylum was cited widely in       submissions to the       Leveson Inquiry into the Culture Practice and Ethics of the Press during       2011 and 2012.
It had       earlier influenced the Mayor of London to initiate annual awards for press       reporting on asylum and       refugees which ran until 2008.
Improving Accountability and `Safeguards' in Involuntary Resettlement:       Dr McDowell's       expertise on development-created displacement and involuntary resettlement       has resulted in a       series of senior advisory assignments with the major international       organisations engaged in       resettlement policy and practice.
Earlier roles included preparing       strategy options for the       International Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC) in Geneva to       incorporate the dynamic of       non-conflict displacement into its international advocacy and information       work; and acting as the       Senior International Resettlement Specialist on the Asian Development       Bank's Technical       Assistance missions in China, India and Cambodia, advising governments on       policies for       impoverishment risk management in the resettlement process.
They led to Dr       McDowell acting as       Social and Resettlement Expert on the World Bank Inspection Panel       investigation into the       KwaBenya Urban Environmental Sanitation Project in Ghana during 2009 and       2010.
The       Inspection Panel is an independent complaints mechanism for people who       believe they have been,       or are likely to be, adversely affected by a World Bank-funded project.
The request for inspection in this case was based on a contention that a       highly-controversial,       multimillion dollar project for a proposed sanitary landfill site would       result in negative pollution and       health impacts and would displace residents and artisans working in the       affected valley and its       surroundings.
As a Panel member, Dr McDowell participated in the       inspection and advised on       social and resettlement aspects of the project in Accra, Ghana.
Within       this role he undertook       investigative research that was fundamental to the Panel's fact-finding       efforts and ultimate findings       on issues of policy compliance and harm to the affected community.
The       World Bank accepted the       Panel's findings that both the pre-construction impact studies and       community consultations with       residents were insufficient and froze the project loan, thus enabling time       for full consultations and       impact assessments.
The investigation resulted in an important new Bank       requirement that       comprehensive Zone of Impact Assessments are undertaken in all future       projects as part of loan       preparations.
His research findings have contributed to the strengthening of national       and international       governance through adoption of national resettlement laws and improved       Technical Directives and       Policies.
Beneficiaries also included the immediate population most       affected by the proposed       landfill site in Ghana.
In 2010 Dr McDowell was commissioned to carry out a study on involuntary       resettlement and       climate change for the UK Government Chief Scientific Adviser's Foresight       Programme       (Department of Business, Industry and Skills) which was published in 2011.
The One Year Review       of the Global Environmental Migration Programme for which the paper was       commissioned       described the Programme as having "significant impact with UK and         international stakeholders.
It         has influenced the work of the DFID and that of several international         and multinational bodies such         as the United Nations, the European Union and the World Bank.
The         Project's methods and         findings have found particular resonance with policy-makers, strategic         thinkers and research         communities from a wide range of stakeholder organisations."
(Foresight, Government Office for       Science, 2013, p.3).
