     CFP impact was visible in key parts of the food consumer-citizen       transition debate, with particular engagement with a core group of NGOs:       Sustain, Friends of the Earth, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the UK Food       Group.
Sustainable diets     (a) International: Lang was invited to co-chair the 2010 process       of producing the first global definition of Sustainable Diets, under the       auspices of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and Bioversity       International (part of the UN's global Consultative Group on International       Agricultural Research).
The definition is now widely cited and Lang's role       acknowledged (e.g., International Union of Nutritional Science World       Congress, Burlingame speech, September 2013) [1].
Lang was invited to       present sustainable diets to the European Commission meeting on       mainstreaming sustainable lifestyles in Brussels (22.08.11).
He gave       invited papers on sustainable diets to UN bodies (FAO, UN Environment       Programme, World Health Organization (WHO)) and argued that consumers need       more coherent advice from industry and government.
He addressed WHO's       planning meetings for the International Conference on Nutrition 2 (ICN2)       (2013) and the FAO (2013).
He gave an invited keynote on the European       sustainable diets experience (the sole non-US presentation) to the US       National Academies of Science's Institute of Medicine, Washington DC at a       two-day science conference preparing for the 5-year review of US dietary       guidelines (2013) [2].
He addressed governmental meetings on sustainable       diets: e.g., France DuALINE (Paris, 2010), Netherlands Food Agency 10th       Anniversary Conference (Rotterdam, 2010) and contributed to the       Netherlands sustainable food position (2011).
(b) NGOs/ Organised Civil Society: The CFP presented at NGO       meetings between 2011 and 2013 and actively helped to create a 31 NGO Eating-Better       alliance launched in July 2013.
WWF, the world's largest conservation NGO,       cites CFP as the inspiration for its Livewell project created by       WWF to link health and environmental criteria in population advice and       replace the government's Eatwell plate.
This is now being rolled       out across Europe and globally by WWF [3].
Due to his research on public       procurement, Barling was asked to chair the Good Food on a Public Plate       Project (public procurement of sustainable local food, 2005 ff) and Good       Food for Our Money Campaign (2009 ff) at Sustain, shaping public policy       interest in this sphere, e.g., at the London Olympics on fish policy [4].
(c) Food Industry: After resistance in the 1990s and 2000s, the       sustainable diet argument now receives industry attention.
Rayner       (Honorary CFP Fellow) and Lang were invited members of the European Heart       Network Working Party on working with Industry (2010) and clarified `terms       of engagement'.
Barling and Lang were invited to meet retailers e.g.,       Marks &amp; Spencer, Waitrose and Tesco regularly (between 2008 and       2013).
In a 2010 article in The Grocer, following summary research       on declining soil health, Lang challenged retailers to help consumers to       conserve soil.
In 2011, Asda completed its soil guide [5].
(d) Foundations and Funders: Lang was invited to review nutrition       and environment work for the Boards of the Wellcome Trust (2011) and       Carasso Foundation (2013).
Lang was invited to join the Carasso Foundation       (international, Paris-based) Science Committee, which is now exploring the       CFP's proposal for an international commission on sustainable diets.
(e) UK Government: Following the SDC sustainable diet       recommendations, Lang was consulted by the UK Food Standards Agency (FSA),       Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and Department       of Health, which led to the FSA creating the Integrated Advice to         Consumers programme (noted by many government processes in Europe,       North America, Australia but closed by the UK Government in 2010).
[6]       Between 2011 and 2012 the Environmental Audit Committee held a Sustainable       Food inquiry and supported the CFP call for clarification of sustainable       diets.
Changed localities (Caraher and Lang)     CFP research on changed localities has achieved impact through:     (a) Local Authorities: Caraher's mapping of fast food outlets around       schools (conducted for Preston and City &amp; Hackney) is now being       replicated in four cities: Glasgow, Sandwell, Oldham and London (in many       of its boroughs).
The Mayor of London worked with the Chartered Institute       of Environmental Health to produce a Takeaways Toolkit for local       authority use, citing Caraher (2013) [7].
This work was cited by the UK       Research Councils as an example of impact.
It is also cited in the London         Health Inequalities Strategy (August 2009), the Greater London       Authority and Mayor's strategy.
Caraher was invited to be a member of the       London Food Board between 2007 and 2009 and advised the Mayor of London's       food strategy; Lang stood in for him (2009 ff).
Glasgow's Centre for       Population Health drew on Caraher's work in Tower Hamlets.
Caraher's work       has also emphasised the role of planning to protect consumers from       excessive fast food offer.
It contributed to the development of National       Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Public Health Guidance on       the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease (Caraher was a member of the       group which developed the Guidance) and also informed a NICE group on       planning (of which he was also a member) as a public health issue.
The       role of planning is also being developed in Australia, with Caraher       invited onto the Brisbane Queensland University of Technology planning       team on health literacy (2012 to 13) and the Melbourne City review (2013)       [8].
(b) NGO / Civil Society: The CFP is cited as directly inspiring       the creation of Incredible Edible Todmorden by Pam Warhurst (ex-Forestry       Commission chair and Todmorden resident) [9].
This is the much-lauded       civic initiative revitalising a post-industrial Lancashire town through       citizenship action on food, now an international small town network       growing food in urban space.
It is presented as the urban model in       Jonathan Porritt's utopian book The World We Made (2013).
Lang       also regularly advises the Transition Towns movement.
(c) Government: Caraher was invited onto the Scottish       Government's Food and Drink Policy aiming for sustainable localism.
He is       also a member of the Advisory Committee, Scottish Strategic Research       Programme 2011-2016; and was a member of the Scottish Government's       `think-tank' on `Local versus Global for Scottish Food Producers &amp;       Consumers' (2011).
Food Citizenship as health literacy (Caraher, Lang,         Barling)       The CFP has a long record on the research of health within citizenship.
Examples include:     a) Food and Cooking Skills: Caraher and Lang began work on this       in the 1990s.
Between 2008 and 2010 Caraher led a cooking intervention       trial which became key evidence supporting NGO pressure for cooking to be       reintroduced in English schools, successfully negotiating the transition       from Labour to the Coalition.
They were consulted in (and informed)       behind-the-scenes discussions in the Dimbleby and Vincent School Food         Plan presented to Secretary of State Michael Gove (2012) [10].
Caraher and Lang are frequently asked to advise those lobbying for reform.
Since 2008, they regularly meet Jamie Oliver, Raymond Blanc, the Academy       of Culinary Arts (top chefs) and a wide group of NGO and public health       bodies.
The CFP was invited by Jamie Oliver and the Prince of Wales to a       stakeholder meeting on cooking and food skills, prior to the School Food       Plan publication.
The CFP hosted its 1st (now annual) Food       Symposium on Food Skills in October 2010).
A day earlier, the UK       Government launched its own joint Skills Council review of skills needed       in the food industry which reported in 2011.     b) Food provenance.
Lang's notion of Food Miles continues       to get traction, both critical and laudatory, in the issue of shortening       supply chains to build consumer trust.
Barling's work on Ethical       Traceability (EU research and book) informed CFP public engagement       following the EU horsemeat scandal (2013) which exposed long chain       failings in governance.
Lang undertook 70 media interviews in six weeks.
Confidential industry engagement followed (e.g., Marks &amp; Spencer,       Tesco, Asda-Walmart) with Tesco committing to reduce the length and       complexity of supply chains to meet consumer trust concerns [11].
Following the National Audit Office report on horsemeat (2013), Lang was       invited to meet and discuss the citizenship critique with the entire Food       Standards Agency Board (5th November 2013) and with the Chief       Executive `one-to-one' in August and November.
