     Many state-of-the-art features of ESS procedures have found their way       beyond the infrastructure, impacting the methodological standards employed       by other survey organisations and programmes and feeding into their       statistical outputs.
For instance, a collaborative project led by       Fitzgerald to develop a new methodology for cross-national pre-testing led       to much of its approach being adopted from 2009 by a key collaborator in       the USA, the National Center for Health Statistics.
This is America's       largest health protection agency and conducts national and international       surveys.
ESS methods have also been adopted by major international survey       programmes.
The European Quality of Life Survey, conducted by the European       Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions       (Eurofound), used the ESS as a benchmark for improving its methodology in       20079.
The 2011 EQLS benefited from these methodological       improvements.
The work of Eurofound contributes to the planning and design       of better living and working conditions in Europe via the European       Commission.
The Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE)       was also influenced by the methodology of the ESS, for example adopting       its translation approach10, benefiting SHARE fieldwork in 2008       and 2009.
SHARE is Europe's first ERIC and its findings feed into policy       discussions on the key issue of an ageing society.
ESS question modules       have had impact beyond the ESS.
For example, many of the ESS Trust in       Justice questions have been adopted as part of the EC measures for this       domain (the Euro-Justis project to assess public confidence in justice),       providing attitudinal indicators on this key societal issue at a European       level.
The ESS methodology has been adopted in specific countries participating       in the ESS by government departments, commercial fieldwork agencies and       the private sector.
A survey among ESS National Coordinators11       in 2012 revealed that the Estonian Ministry of Social Affairs and       Education had benefited from ESS methodology &#8212; seminars about the ESS were       held in 2009 and learning from the ESS applied to Ministry-funded       initiatives such as the Programme for the International Assessment of       Adult Competencies (PIAAC) study in 2011; Polish ESS National Coordinators       have provided ESS-based training for the National Bank of Poland and ARC       Market and Opinion, a commercial research institute (in 2011 and 2012,       respectively); and commercial fieldwork agency GfK Slovakia has since 2011       adopted the ESS contact form to monitor respondent contacts, a major       fieldwork agency in Germany (INFAS, INFRATEST DIMAP).
The ESS TRAPD       (translation, review, adjudication, pre-testing and documentation)       approach to translation was used in a survey of Muslims in North-Rhine       Westphalia in 2011 and published by the Ministry for Work, Integration and       Social Affairs.
ESS has also had a substantive impact.
Developing better measures of       well-being and progress is a shared goal internationally, supported by the       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) World Forum       and European Commission.
The UK Government is committed to developing       wider measures of well-being so that Government policies can be more       tailored.
The All-Party Parliamentary Group on Wellbeing Economics was       established in 2009 to support this agenda, with the New Economics       Foundation (`nef') providing the secretariat.
nef is a major player in UK       and international debates in this area and regularly uses ESS data.
In       2006-2007 nef worked with the ESS Director and team to develop an ESS       module on well-being to inform its National Accounts of Wellbeing project12,       which calls for governments to directly and regularly measure individuals'       subjective well-being.
The project website was launched in 2010, including       a tool enabling individuals to measure their own well-being based on ESS       questions, which were used to create the National Accounts of Well-being       Indicators.
The Office of National Statistics (ONS) Measuring National       Well-being Programme, which commenced in 2010 and publishes articles and       reports on its findings, seeks to provide a fuller picture of society by       supplementing existing economic, social and environmental measures.
In       support of the programme, the ONS has analysed ESS core questionnaire       items measuring life satisfaction and happiness, and the Round 3 ESS       module on Well-being.
ONS measures of subjective well-being were also       developed following discussions with nef about its Round 3 ESS findings.
In addition, the Strategy and Analysis Team at the Cabinet Office has       deployed evidence from the ESS to mainstream the concept of well-being       across Government13.
The ESS module on Experiences and Expressions of Ageism (2008-2009),       developed by Professor Dominic Abrams (University of Kent), the ESS       Director and their teams, was used to `reframe the debate' on attitudes to       ageing, another significant issue for governments worldwide.
The module       was complemented by an in-depth programme of work between the University       of Kent, Age UK and the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)14.
In 2009 the team approached the DWP about an analysis of the attitudes       towards ageing data.
The DWP commissioned the team to produce reports       using the ESS ageing data, working in collaboration with a senior       researcher at DWP.
The ESS Director and his team held a seminar at the DWP       in 2013 on this topic to introduce the DWP and other Government analysts       to the ESS dataset and present the ESS findings.
The Coordinators of the       EU and UK Year for Active Ageing and Intergenerational Solidarity also       discussed ESS data at this event, underlining the importance of preparing       for an ageing society.
The Round 5 module on Trust in Justice (2010-2011) was developed by Dr       Jon Jackson (London School of Economics and Political Science), the ESS       Director and their teams and was designed to provide evidence on       procedural justice.
The research has shown that fairness is not simply a       desirable feature of justice systems but a precondition for effective       justice.
The project's impact has been to persuade key policy people in UK       Government and the justice system that institutional legitimacy is central       to the formation and application of justice policy15.
Its       impact is identifiable by changes in the attitudes of key stakeholders,       reflected in commendations of the work (National Audit Office)16,       commissioning of further related work (Ministry of Justice) and       applications of principles (HM Inspectorate of Constabulary) where       `legitimacy targets' have been added to senior officers' Key Performance       Indicators.
The work has featured in the broadcast media and in the       national press.
For example, the research has also been taken up in Radio       4 programmes including Andrew Marr's Start the Week and a       three-part serial on policing by Mark Easton.
The ESS Director and his       team organised a seminar on the findings, which was hosted by the Centre       for European Policy Studies, a leading Brussels think-tank, and attended       by senior officials from the EC.
The Director was invited to organise a       seminar at the UK Cabinet Office on this topic further to discussions       about the ESS dataset with members of the Well-being and Analysis Unit of       the Cabinet Office.
This took place in October 2012.
Also within the UK, the National Centre for Social Research, NatCen       (where the UK ESS National Coordinator is housed) collaborated with Dr Rob       Ford (University of Manchester) to use ESS immigration questions on the       2011 British Social Attitudes (BSA) Survey (to be repeated in 2013).
When       published in the 29th BSA report in September 2012, this work       attracted much comment and debate in the media and policy circles.
For       example, the Migration Observatory prepared a briefing on the issue using       BSA and ESS data.
The Migration Observatory provides authoritative,       evidence-based analysis of data on migration and migrants in the UK to       inform media, public and policy debates.
Tracking the non-academic impact of the ESS datasets beyond the UK is a       formidable task, but examples show similar processes taking place at an       international level.
For instance, the ESS Director and his team were       invited to convene a seminar at the OECD in Europe in January 2013 to       discuss findings from the ESS module on work and the recession, feeding       into their wider programme of work on this topic.
They also convened a       seminar in December 2012 at the European Policy Centre in Brussels on the       results of the welfare module, attended by senior EC officials and       representatives of many third-sector organisations.
Examples from a survey       of ESS National Coordinators (NCs) in 2012 show how ESS findings have been       used in reports from local administrations in Germany, often as a       reference distribution for local surveys, for example on migration.
ESS       findings have also appeared in reports by German Federal Offices and       Ministries.
The Bulgarian national team has produced publications to aid       decisions in diverse policy fields.
For example, the book authored by the       NC, Wellbeing and trust, published in 2010, used ESS data and was       used in the actualisation of immigration legislation.
ESS findings have also appeared in the press and are available to the       general public.
The launch in July 2013 of the ESS Findings booklet       was covered in the UK by The Today Programme, during the CNBC News       flagship morning news programme and in the Sunday Times and The         Guardian.
The ESS Director and his team gave media interviews.
The       Polish national ESS team held a series of dissemination conferences since       the third round of the ESS from 2008 onwards for a mixed audience       involving politicians, representatives of public administrations at all       levels and NGOs.
The Bulgarian national team has organised press       conferences after each round of ESS that address key areas for policy.
For       example, the release of ESS data and analyses of satisfaction with the       health service presented in 2011 at a press conference provoked wide       public debate.
The Slovakian NC team has held a similar event to that in       Bulgaria and made a TV documentary about the ESS in 2012, aired on state       television, including an interview with the ESS Director.
The ESS questionnaire, developed by the ESS Director and his City-based       team in collaboration with other international experts and then fielded       according to a methodology developed with his CST, has had a direct       influence on the policy process in the UK17 and across Europe.
The UK Universities Minister, David Willetts, writing to other Ministries       represented on the ESS ERIC Steering Committee in June 2011, stated that       the ESS enables `governments, policy analysts and scholars to keep up with       societal trends that affect how democracy is working and how European       citizens perceive their lives, their nation and the world'18
