     The CFP has influenced food policy by injecting ideas into policy       discourse and influencing high-level policy-makers and bodies in the UK       and internationally.
Here we provide seven examples.
(i) Establishment of the Council of Food Policy Advisors     As a result of proposals in a CFP paper [2005, see section 2], the       Council of Food Policy Advisers was created in 2008 by Hilary Benn, then       Secretary of State for the Department of the Environment, Food and Rural       Affairs (Defra).
Council membership represented diverse sectors and       experience to help drive Government thinking on how to identify priorities       and integrate appropriate policy across sectors.
Lang was appointed to the       Council.
This body was widely credited with championing a new drive for       (and integration of) food policy issues in central government, e.g.,       generating the Fruit and Vegetables Taskforce, normalising the notion of       sustainable diets and helping formulate Defra's landmark Food 2030       policy framework to address the impact of food consumption on both human       and environmental health and the general unsustainability of the food       system [1], [2], [3].
(ii) `Food Matters' policy report      When he became Prime Minister, Gordon Brown responded to CFP analysis in       Social Policy &amp; Administration (2002) by requesting the first       UK review of integrated food policy since the Ministry of Food was       abolished in 1955.
The review prioritised health and environmental       outcomes.
Lang and Barling were invited to become two of the six-strong       advisory group.
A civil servant on CFP's MSc was seconded back to co-write       the report.
The publication of the data summary (January 2008) and the Food         Matters final report (July 2008 [4]) were widely welcomed in policy       circles and fuelled a seven month internal Whitehall debate which resulted       in the creation of a new Cabinet Sub-Committee &#8212; the Domestic Affairs       (Food) Committee (DA(F)) &#8212; to lead on better integration of industry,       health, environment and cultural thinking.
The DA(F) was chaired by Hilary       Benn at the Ministerial level, with a cross-UK senior civil servant       liaison committee created in parallel between England and Devolved       Administrations.
(iii) Sustainable Development Commission Reports     The Prime Minister appointed CFP Director, Lang, to the Government's       Sustainable Development Commission (SDC).
Lang led and co-authored a       series of SDC reports issuing formal advice to Government, including Looking         Back, Looking Forward: Sustainability and UK Food Policy 2000-2011       (March 2011) [5] and Food Security and Sustainability: the perfect mix       (July 2009) [6].
(iv) Tackling Obesity     The CFP accepted an invitation from the Chief Scientist's Foresight       programme in December 2005 to summarise the role of policy in tackling       obesity.
This was the only policy strand of work undertaken in the major       "Tackling Obesities" project and final report.
CFP proposals on the need       to address ecological public health and `policy cacophony' helped drive       the rare collaboration of three Departments of State and resulted in the       &#163;0.3 billion `Healthy Weight Healthy Lives' programme 2007 to 2010 [7].
Two CFP members were appointed to the Expert Advisory Group and played       active parts in design and delivery until its closure by the Coalition in       2011.
(v) Influence on Food Companies     The CFP is regularly invited to be a `firm but acceptable critic' to food       companies by giving speeches, having private meetings, auditing and       critiquing industry practice.
Examples since 2008 are: meeting Marks &amp;       Spencer about Plan A (2009, 2010); speaking at two Waitrose closed       strategy meetings (2011 and 2012); addressing the UK grain trade (2013);       discussing with IGD (a food industry research body with 750 corporate       members) how to address the `omni-standards' for the auditing of food       sustainability which are now emerging with WRAP and IGD [8].
To obviate       conflicts of interest the CFP does not accept funding from the food       industry.
(vi) Cabinet Office, Whitehall Briefings and Select Committee           Enquiries     The CFP has frequently provided private UK Cabinet Office and Whitehall       briefings and representation at Select Committee Enquiries.
Examples       include: (a) Barling advised the creation of new UK food security       indicators (2008 to 10); (b) Lang asked to meet the Chair of the       Environmental Audit Committee (EAC) before the Food Security inquiry about       its remit and goal, after the SDC's closure; (c) appearing before the EAC       sustainable food inquiry (CFP Honorary Fellow Clutterbuck was an EAC       advisor); (d) appearing before the EFRA committee inquiry into food       security [9].
(vii) European Union policies     The CFP was invited to present a paper on Common Agricultural Policy       reform to EU Commissioners for Health and Agriculture by the pan-EU NGO       Agriculture and Rural Consortium in 2010 [10].
CFP 6th and 7th       Framework projects inform policy-making on environment and knowledge-based       bio-economy via EU Directorate General (DG) Research, a long-term impact.
Barling was invited to be expert advisor to the DG Sanco food chain       committee.
Caraher was appointed to Ireland's influential SafeFood       Advisory Committee in 2010.
(viii) United Nations     The CFP's work on integrated policy has been referenced by multiple       agencies in the UN system.
Professor Olivier De Schutter, Special       Rapporteur on Right to Food, read Food Wars as he began his term       and says this was one of his early influences [11].
In 2009, he invited       Lang to advise on Responsibilities of Transnational Corporations in the       food sector, co-organised with the European Centre for Constitutional and       Human Rights and supported by the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
