     The Impunity and the Rule of Law Initiative produced a positive impact on       public engagement, policy making and civil society; and influenced       international legislation and NGO practices concerning human rights,       freedom of information and protection of journalists.
This was visible       during the `Working Conference of the Initiative on Impunity and the         Rule of Law'.
The event, held at City on 1st June 2011,       was attended by many stakeholders including senior members of       international and intergovernmental organisations including UNESCO,       Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and       Inter-American Committee on Human Rights, journalists' federations and       expert NGOs including Amnesty, Article 19, Journalistes en Danger,       Reporters without Borders and the Red Cross, among many others.
Participants included Assistant Director-General of UNESCO Janis Karklins       and Director of Human Rights of the UK Foreign Office Susan Hyland.
UNESCO       considered the conference to be a major international and       interdisciplinary event aimed at developing new global initiatives       intended to protect journalists and end the impunity of those who murder,       assault or threaten them.
UNESCO stated on its website (2011) that the       Initiative which had organised the conference 'has already received the         backing of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, a long-time advocate for the         worldwide protection of journalists' rights' who also sent a special       message to the conference.
The conference marked the launch of a topical report by the New       York-based NGO, Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) which revealed that       13 countries around the world had five or more unsolved cases of murdered       journalists committed during the past decade.
The conference attracted       sponsorship and funding from important organisations (the Open Society       Institute &#8212; &#163;1,047; the Norwegian PEN Centre which works defending freedom       of expression and advocating human rights worldwide &#8212; &#163;1,334; and the       Swedish National Commission for UNESCO &#8212; &#163;3,943).
As co-director of the       Initiative, Tumber provided the welcoming and introductory remarks at the       conference which started the process of consultation and set the       precedents for the International Programme for the Development of       Communication (IPDC) at the United Nations' first Inter-Agency Meeting       with the UNESCO States members on 13th and 14th       September 2011.
UNESCO made use of the Initiative's London Conference as a       preparatory meeting for its Inter-Agency Meeting in Paris and stated on       its website: 'As a first step towards this event [the UN Inter-Agency         meeting], a meeting entitled Safety           and Protection for Journalists: A Responsibility for the World was         organized in June 2011 by the Initiative on Impunity and the Rule of         Law.
The conclusions drawn from this meeting will be presented at the UN         Inter-Agency Meeting in Paris.'
Research and policy proposals       prepared by our research team became reference materials for this meeting.
Archbishop Desmond Tutu's speech at the conference raised awareness about       the violence against media workers throughout society and appealled to       world governments for urgent intervention.
Draghici and Woods delivered       proposals based on previous research (the scoping exercise) carried out by       Xenos, to strengthen existing UN mechanisms for increasing co-operation       and preventing attacks against journalists.
The Initiative produced a valuable impact on public engagement by       creating an international platform of academic and legal expertise       comprising governmental and non-governmental experts from organisations       (including International Bar Associations, Index on Censorship, OSCE,       Columbia Law School, Saferworld, the UK House of Lords, The Salzburg       Global Seminar and UN, Media Legal Defence Initiative and International       News Safety Institute) to seek acceptance for fighting violence against       journalists and the right of citizens to be informed.
A list of relevant       resources and working papers is accessible on the Initiative website.
The role played by Gaber (Professor of Journalism at City) and the UK       Government's representative on the Intergovernmental Council of the UN's       International Programme for the Development of Communication based at       UNESCO, was crucial.
Gaber, an active contributor to the Initiative,       persuaded the Council to direct UNESCO to convene a meeting of all UN       agencies to draw up and implement a plan to increase journalists' safety       and hold governments accountable for the impunity provided to their       assailants.
The UK Ambassador at UNESCO, Matthew Sudders, singled out       Gaber as a key contributor to the process in a letter sent on 24th       August 2012 to the Director of the Freedom of Expression and Media       Development UN Division.
The UN officially adopted the proposal and Gaber       represented the UK at a meeting in Vienna in November 2012 of all relevant       UN agencies, national governments and international organisations.
The       meeting heard progress reports on the implementation of the plan so far       and made recommendations for future action.
Gaber's crucial role in       getting the Initiative underway was noted in a House of Commons debate by       Don Foster MP on 21st March 2012 [7].
In August 2012 Tumber was       asked by the UK National Commission for UNESCO for input into a review of       UNESCO's draft work plan on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of       Impunity and to comment on the draft of the UK response to the UNESCO Plan       [8].
The CLJJ organised a further conference on `Obstacles to free speech         and the Safety of Journalists' on 2nd May 2013, an       activity which forms part of and is specifically referenced in the UNESCO       Implementation Strategy 2013-2014 [9].
The consultation proved crucial to shaping policy interventions and the       coordination of inter-agency mechanisms.
It suggested high-level expert       consultations for the Austrian government at the UN Human Rights Council       and informed the final UN Action Plan to combat violence against       journalists on how to monitor progress at both national and international       levels.
This Action Plan, prepared during the first UN Inter-Agency       Meeting on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity, will       establish an inter-agency mechanism to monitor progress and assist       countries in the development of legislation favouring freedom of       expression.
Evidence of the application of the recommendations made by the       Impunity Initiative at City can be identified in the UNESCO 2013-2014       strategy on freedom of speech (p.28) [10].
