     According to a 2004 environmental agency report (6), angling tourism in       England and Wales is       growing, bringing new income into rural areas.
A survey in 2001 showed       that the total capital value       of coarse fisheries was &#163;2.3 billion with annual expenditure by coarse       anglers almost &#163;2billion on       tackle, travel, accommodation and meals in rural economies.
Approximately       50% of these coarse       fisheries contain carp.
KHV causes a highly virulent disease affecting carp, and poses a serious       socio-economic threat to       the UK carp industry.
Given the right environmental conditions it can       cause 100% mortality in       infected fish.
It was first reported in Israel in 1998 and was recorded in       the UK for the first time in       2003 in angling waters experiencing large mortalities in carp, although       there is some evidence that       it has been here for longer than that.
In 2006, 23 sites had outbreaks and       the disease became       notifiable in the UK in 2007.
It is also listed under Council Directive       2006/88/EC as a disease       subject to European Community controls.
In 2010, a paper was published (7)       in which it was found       that 37% of fisheries sampled and 50% of imported fish tested positive for       the virus.
The total       number of carp fisheries in the UK is unknown but, given the data we have       on fish movements,       there are in excess of 5000.
English fisheries which experienced an outbreak in 2008 had to follow a       four year KHV monitoring       and test programme.
Each of the fisheries was placed under movement       controls in the form of a       confirmed designation notice for the control of KHV disease following an       initial outbreak in 2008.
The ones which did not have any further clinical outbreaks and tested       negative for the presence of       KHV had this designation lifted in January 2013 (8).
In addition, it was       estimated in Germany that       costs of an outbreak in a farm producing 20 tonnes of fish will range from       &#8364;150,000 to &#8364;250,000,       this includes disinfection, removal of cadavers, cleaning and partly       restocking (9).
In July 2008, it was reported in the popular press that DEFRA was about       to announce a policy of       eradication of KHV (10).
However, following the modelling exercise carried       out by Taylor, Norman       et al, DEFRA carried out an economic analysis of the costs and benefits of       attempting to eradicate       KHV.
For this analysis DEFRA compared the Taylor and Norman model outputs       (referred to as the       "Cefas outputs" in the following quote) with different detection rates       against a static model.
According to the DEFRA report on this work (ref 1, Conclusions 12.1 &amp;       12.2, pg 18), "In putting       together the impact assessment, three different models have been included       in producing the cost       benefit analysis, each with a varying degree of future spread of clinical       outbreaks cases and the       likely affect an eradication programme would have on the future number of       clinical outbreak cases.
The three models are i) the static model, ii) the model based on Cefas       outputs with 0.6% detection       rate and iii) a model based on Cefas outputs with a 50% detection rate.
We       believe that the second       of these, the model based on Cefas outputs with a 0.6% detection rate, is       the best and most       suitable model to use in calculating the net benefit of an eradication       programme.
The model is       based on the best possible available scientific outputs at our disposal       and the current detection       rate of 0.6% is far more likely than a 50% detection rate, which is what       would be required to       prevent further spread".
In summary, DEFRA used the predictions from the       model by Taylor,       Norman et al, about levels of infection and how much effort would have to       be put into surveillance       to detect them and did a cost benefit analysis which they used to make       this major policy decision.
Therefore, in July 2010 it was reported in the popular press that DEFRA       had announced (3) that       "Following a lengthy consultation exercise and evaluation of the possible       benefits and likelihood of       success, it has been concluded an eradication programme will not be       undertaken for KHV disease       in England and Wales.
This means that Category V (infected) status will be       assumed immediately       for England and Wales.
Passive surveillance would continue, the disease       would remain notifiable       and existing control arrangements will stay in place when an outbreak is       confirmed.
Imports of       susceptible species from countries outside the European Union and       movements from other       Member States would continue in line with the rules that currently       applied.
However, movements of       susceptible species would not be possible from GB to areas of a higher       health status in other       Member States.
The exception being those movements from compartments in GB       (eg individual       farms) which have gained KHV disease free status (category I).
This       decision clearly had economic       impact for individual fisheries but this was determined to be less than if       an eradication programme       was attempted."
