     During the REF period, the team was involved in both applying research       findings to educational policy and practice and undertaking new research.
They developed tools and materials based on their research to support the       leadership, design and evaluation of collaborative working.
They also       designed and ran professional development activities for local authority       and school staff in Wales, North Somerset, Walsall and Leicester on       collaboration and networking.
This extended to facilitating and       coordinating a range of regional and national school-to-school networks       and acting as consultants to local authorities and central government       departments.
As an external evaluator, Jopling in particular has assessed       the effectiveness of a number of school-to-school networks.
Taken       together, this work had direct impacts on:            how local authorities and school leaders mobilise individuals to         collaborate       the leadership and design of collaborative improvement initiatives       how leaders and practitioners evaluate the effectiveness of         partnership.
This has led to improvements in the effectiveness of these initiatives       and in some cases positive impacts on student learning and achievement as       outlined below.
Some of the key impacts during the period related to the application and       extension of findings from research into NCSL's NLC programme.
Jopling and       Hadfield designed the major programme reviews and evaluations and led the       research team on what remains probably the largest programme of learning       networks in the world, involving over 1500 schools and over 650,000       pupils.
The programme influenced practice in schools and shaped government       policy, leading to the introduction of Primary Strategy Learning Networks       from 2006 and influencing collaborative elements of more recent       developments such as teaching schools.
After its completion NCSL used a       number of the tools designed by the team in its programmes of leadership       development, including leadership for the `Narrowing the Gap' initiative       (2008-10) and work with Local and National Leaders of Education (2007-13)       (see 5a-c).
The research has also formed the basis of external evaluations of       collaborative professional development initiatives for the DfE and local       authorities.
The evaluations undertaken for North Somerset local authority       (2008; 2012) highlighted the potential of its networks of school to       develop middle leaders and influenced their revised leadership development       policies and provision of school support and improvement.
An evaluation of       provision for Leicester City Council (2009-11) highlighted innovative       practice that led to changes in approaches to school-community links and       the management of advanced skills teachers.
A commissioning toolkit       developed for schools (2010-11) for Walsall Children's Services based on       the team's research was used with all 128 schools in the authority.
The       evaluation for the Department for Education of the National Strategies'       Primary Leading Teachers Programme (Hadfield, Jopling &amp; Emira, 2011),       which focused on the use of collaborative lesson study in teaching and       learning, was used as part of the government's summary of the impact and       effectiveness of the National Strategies (see 5e below).
Finally, the       Longitudinal Study of Early Years Professional Status, which explored       collaborative leadership in early years, was cited by Government in its       response to the Nutbrown Review of early education and childcare       qualifications in 2013 and used as a case study in the British Educational       Research Association's Why Education Matters (2013) briefing to       government.
The 13 videos which form part of the multimedia case studies       created from the research (www.cedare-reports.co.uk/eyps)       were viewed over 1200 times between January and November 2013.
Regionally, in the schools sector CeDARE was the lead research partner       for the Black Country Challenge (2008-11).
Evaluations of the City       Challenge programme's impact (Hutchings et al, 2012) demonstrated       a range of impacts on pupils and schools including increases in pupil       attainment in English and Mathematics at three times the national rate of       improvement.
In post-compulsory education, Dhillon's research has       informed the work of the Black Country Partnership for Learning and the       development of regional strategies for widening participation in post-compulsory 	  learning (Dhillon, 2013), including the university's investment       in CRADLE in 2013.
Hadfield advised the Welsh Assembly Government in 2009-10 on the rollout       of its national Professional Learning Community programme and worked on       the design and delivery of Leading Learning for School Effectiveness       (LLSE).
This project involved him in designing and running a series of       seven workshops for over 400 local authority officers and headteachers       from 12 Welsh local authorities.
LLSE became the pilot for the National       Professional Learning Communities programme delivered to 2000 Welsh       schools and the materials developed by the team have been incorporated       into national training and are hosted on the websites of the four Local       Authority Consortia in Wales to support school leaders (see 5d).
The       team's thinking about evaluation and impact assessment has directly       influenced the design of the professional learning communities website       which is the national platform to support professional learning in Wales.
