     The research which led to the impact is the work of one academic, O'Neill.
Research was conducted in the context of regular engagement with the law       enforcement community, particularly in Scotland, both before, during and       after research was conducted.
This regular engagement led to targeted       research of direct relevance to the law enforcement community, both at UK       and International (to include EU) level.
This led to effective engagement       at the policy level, with research directly informing responses to the       House of Lords' consultation process.
This is reflected in the fact that       many of O'Neill's responses to the consultation ran in parallel       with responses from the law enforcement and criminal justice community       across the UK and beyond.
It was anticipated at the very beginning of the       development of the research, during this REF period, that regular       engagement with this particular practitioner community would lead to       research output that would have a significant impact.
The direct audience for the impact claimed is the House of Lords'       European Union Committee, and thence to Parliament and the UK Government.
Material has also been made available by the House of Lords for reporting       purposes to the national press and other interested parties.
The report       was prepared by the Justice, Institutions and Consumer Protection       Sub-Committee and the Home Affairs, Health and Education Sub-Committee.
The report built on oral and written evidence from government ministers,       key stakeholders such as the police, sub-national governments,       prosecutors, and other key personnel.
A separate but parallel process was       conducted with the intelligence services.
A number of academics and       individual members of the public also made contributions to the report.
O'Neill's submissions have been reflected in, and relied on, in       the report.
O'Neill's unique contribution to the report was       academic in nature and provided high level rationale, rather than a       practitioner perspective which focused on the operational aspects.
Furthermore her perspective was EU-wide, rather than from a national (e.g.
criminal law) perspective but nonetheless informed by deep knowledge of       Scottish police practices and procedure.
In addition, her research has       focused on the security and law enforcement aspect of the Area of Freedom       Security and Justice of the EU, rather than the civil rights aspects,       which was covered by other contributors.
The impact being claimed is            on the drafting of the final House of Lords Report,       the influence of the report on the national debate,       in due course having an influence on the Governments/ Ministerial         decision, which will,       impact on the UK relations with the EU, and through the EU, the rest         of the world.
The evidence submitted is the House of Lord's published report,       supporting online videos, and the House of Lords web site which provides       an overview of the development of the debate (some of which will be       outside the REF period).
The debate on this issue was opened by the Home Secretary on the 15th       October 2012.
The House of Lords EU Committee, chaired by Lord Boswell of       Aynho, opened and enquiry on this matter, calling for evidence by the 14th       December 2012.
Subsequently oral evidence was also obtained, which is       available at: http://www.parliamentlive.tv/main/Player.aspx?meetingId=12617       and related links, with the Ministers giving evidence at http://www.parliamentlive.tv/Main/Player.aspx?meetingId=12619.
O'Neill made a written report to this enquiry.
The House of Lords European Union Committee inquiry into EU police and       criminal justice measures: The UK's 2014 opt-out decision (13th       Report of Session 2012-13, HL Paper 159) was ordered to be printed on the       16th April 2013, and was published on the 23rd April       2013.
A follow up seminar attended by O'Neill was held at the House of Lords on       the 5th June 2013.
The Government decision needs to be made by the 1st December       2014.
The House of Lord's EU Committee overview is available at       http://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-a-z/lords-select/eu-home-affairs-sub-committee-f-/inquiries/parliament-2010/protocol-36/.
There is potential for greater impact resulting from this research in the       next REF period.
