     The SBRL's research programme has had extensive National and       International reach.
In this case study, we outline three distinct types       of Impact, on: (i) government policy, (ii) development of clinical       guidelines for the management of self-harm and suicide risk, and (iii)       using theory to inform practice in terms of the identification and       assessment of risk.
First, SBRL's research1,2,3,5 has       informed the development of National policy to prevent suicide and       self-harm.
In Scotland, SBRL's research1,2 highlighted       the scale of adolescent self-harm in Scotland for the first time and the       key risk factors associated with self-harm and its repetitionA.
The former, a large study of a representative sample of 15-16 years       (N&gt;2,000), was the most comprehensive study of its kind ever to be       conducted in Scotland.
In Northern Ireland, in addition to O'Connor being       asked to address the Northern Irish Government's 2007 Inquiry into the       Prevention of Suicide &amp; Self-harm, SBRL's research on rumination and       entrapment (key components of O'Connor's Integrated       Motivational-Volitional model of suicide4) was cited by       others in evidence to the Inquiry including the submission by the       Methodist Church in IrelandB.
In terms of having a direct impact on Government Policy on suicide and       self-harm, SBRL's research1,2,3,5 has informed       development of policy in Scotland &amp; Northern Ireland by highlighting       the scale of self-harm, as well as identifying key risk factors and high       risk groups.
Importantly, SBRL's research is cited in all the key policy       documentsC,D,E.
Indeed, one of the specific objectives       (SO1) in the Scottish Government's Responding to Self-harm in Scotland       ReportC highlights training in schools, this was a key       recommendation from SBRL's research1,2.
More recently,       the Scottish Government has launched a national guide to help NHS and       Councils reduce risk of suicide among people living in rural areas (Fig 1       shows correspondence between model and tool).
This guide and toolkitF       would not have been possible without our research and that of our       collaborators3,5.
Figure 1.
O'Connor's IMV model (left) and a page from Choose Life tool         based on the model (right) 	     Similarly, one of the recommendations in the Northern Ireland Suicide       Prevention strategy reviewE (Section A.
Population       Approach.
Action Area: Children &amp; Young People) is to promote positive       mental health and emotional literacy in schools.
This includes citation of       SBRL's research1,2.
Our research is routinely employed       by Non-Governmental Organisations, e.g., Scottish Association of Mental       Health's submission to United Nation's Office of the High Commissioner for       Human Rights' Committee on Economic, Social &amp; Cultural RightsG       cited our work on adolescent self-harm1,2.
Second, SBRL's research has informed the development of the key National       Clinical Guidelines on the management of self-harm, including the National       Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines for the       longer-term management of self-harm (2011)H. The NICE       guidelines are the gold standard recommendations for clinical care       throughout the NHS, and in all local authorities.
Moreover, NICE       guidelines are recognised Internationally as a model of research-informed       clinical excellence, raising standards worldwide.
Within the UK all       professional and care workers engaging with people who self-harm should       adhere to these guidelines because they describe the optimal clinical care       based on the best quality International research evidence.
Our research1,2,3       on the prevalence of self-harm and the associated risk factors, causes and       motives for self-harm is cited within the NICE guidelines, as well as in       the Royal College of Psychiatrists' clinical guidelines on "Self-harm,       suicide and risk: helping people who self-harm" (2011)I.
Third, our research has informed practice, notably by informing advances       in the identification and assessment of suicide risk.
For example, the       Suicide Assessment and Treatment Pathway guidelines (2009) developed in       ScotlandJ highlight perfectionism as a key risk factor,       citing our research7 as the sole evidence.
The pathway       guidelines assist staff within the NHS, local authorities and the third       sector in the assessment of people at risk of suicide, and to provide       appropriate and timely treatment.
Our work1,2 is also       included in the training of psychiatrists who are at the frontline of       suicide prevention efforts (goo.gl/NKU28t).
This work1,2 is also used by social enterprises; for       example, HarmLESS Psychotherapy (goo.gl/UrVTwE),       which was set up in 2010 to raise awareness about the issues which affect       people who self-harm cite our research.
Importantly, our research has       International reach, as evidenced by US Defence agency funding (cf.
Table       1).
Equally, a US University has developed a range of diversity-specific       resources as part of a suicide prevention initiative, again highlighting       the role of perfectionismK.
Our IMV model has also been       adopted by Lifeline Australia (a national charity which provides access to       24 hour crisis support and suicide prevention services across Australia),       citing our research as a key influence on their Lifeline Service Model (goo.gl/BNcjMV).
Our research also       informed the Samaritans' media and public education UK-wide campaign       targeted at mid-life men from disadvantaged backgroundsL.
