     EvoFIT performance:     Irrespective of performance in laboratory studies, the real test for a       facial composite system is whether the composites made are successfully       identified, either by the police or members of the public.
In the first       case of a trial with Lancashire police, EvoFIT was used with an 11 year       old girl who had been sexually assaulted in a park; this EvoFIT was       identified by two members of the public and the attacker was sentenced to       seven years in prisonA.
A photograph of the attacker is shown       in Figure 2, alongside the EvoFIT composite that was used to catch him.
Figure 2.
A sexual predator caught using EvoFIT          Following this initial success we engaged in a wider series of trials       using a number of different police forces both in the UK and abroad.
During a six-month trial of the system by Lancashire police in 2007-8, 30       composites were made, leading directly to six arrests, a success rate of       20%.
Derbyshire police trialled the system for a year from mid-2008; they       produced 57 Figure 2.
A sexual predator caught using EvoFIT       composites, of which 19.3% led to arrests.
Devon and Cornwall police       started using an updated version of EvoFIT in 2010; during their first       four months, 40% of the composites made led to arrests.
In one case, a man       reported himself to the police, since football teammates had identified       the composite and threatened to contact police if he did not.
A trial in       Romania, using a specially constructed face-database, generated 24       composites, of which 37.5% led to arrests.
These trials are fully       documented and evidence regarding the benefits of EvoFIT is publishedB.
A more recent field trial in Humberside policeC resulted in 21       arrests from 35 composites (60%); this compares with 14% from the previous       three years' use of the E-FIT composite system.
An especially high profile       case in South Manchester was solved using EvoFIT and our animated       caricature technique.
The same man attacked and raped two young women; the       second of these made an EvoFIT that was shown in local media, including       the Manchester Evening News (Figure 3).
A number of people identified the       man as a worker in a local fast food outlet; he confessed and has now been       convictedD.
The development of EvoFIT, and the associated       interviewing and presentation techniques, continues.
This development accounts for the steadily increasing success rate       reported in the field trials.
The latest research has demonstrated the       utility of combining the various advancesE, and the science       behind EvoFIT has also been described for a more general audienceF.
Figure 3.
The South Manchester rapist caught using EvoFIT           EvoFIT Reach:     Since 2008, EvoFIT has been used in 14 police forces across the UK, and       throughout Romania, with over 3,000 composites madeG; total       income from sales and support is &#163;106K.
While EvoFIT is the primary outlet       for our researchH, some of our techniques are applicable to       other facial composite systems.
Animated caricature has been adopted by       both EFIT-V, another third generation systemI, and PRO-fit, an       earlier feature-based systemJ, and the holistic-cognitive       interview works particularly well with PRO-fit and is routinely used with       that system.
Because our methods are embedded in rival software our impact       extends to virtually every police force in the UK.
In addition, our       research places UK police ahead of other forces internationally &#8212; no other       system in the world has been as thoroughly evaluated and demonstrated to       work so well.
Consequently, international police forces regularly enquire       about using EvoFIT: it is being evaluated in Israel and Boston (USA).
Geoff Whittaker of the Centre for Applied Science and Technology can speak       to the wider impact of facial imaging in law enforcementK.
Award nominations:            Nominated for World Technology Award, 2004       BBC Focus Magazine: one of the top British innovations of 2009       Cited by the EPSRC as evidence of the impact of the research that it         funds, winter 2009       Shortlisted for a Praxis Unico Impact Award in 2010       EvoFIT shortlisted for the Times Higher Research project of 2010       Caricaturing shortlisted for the Times Higher Research project of 2011       EvoFIT won the University Excellence Award at TechWorld in 2011          Public engagement:     Hancock and Frowd received EPSRC public engagement funding to build an       EvoFIT installation at the Sensation Science Centre in Dundee, shown in       Figure 4 at its opening.
Visitors are able to interact with EvoFIT at a       specially designed station, where they can try evolving a composite for       themselves, while another station explains the science behind the exhibit.
The centre attracts over 70,000 visitors per year, representing a       significant impact on public understanding of the science of face       identification.
Public engagement funding from the BPS (awarded in 2012)       is currently being used to support the development of new installations       that are due to open in 2013 at the Glasgow and Bristol Science centres       (350,000 and 185,000 visitors per year respectively).
EvoFIT has been       featured on television, including Crimewatch and `The One Show'.
Figure 4.
The opening of the EvoFIT exhibit at Dundee Science Centre
