     The evidence we published in 1997-1999 was reported to the UK Department       of Health's Standing Committee on Tobacco and Health (SCOTH) and       contributed, with similar evidence from studies of adults, to the growing       prominence of environmental tobacco smoke (or secondhand smoke) in health       policy during the past decade.
The Thorax reviews were cited (on       screen) as the principal source of evidence underlying the UK Department       of Health's "smoking babies" TV advertisement campaign in 2003 (evaluated       in reference [A]).
Before this campaign, 48% of adults spontaneously       mentioned second-hand smoke as an environmental risk to children's health       and this increased to 54% after the advertisements were broadcast.
The US Surgeon-General's 2006 report [B] and particularly our chapter       within it (chapter 6, reference 5 above) has been influential in       development of public campaigns to reduce exposure of children to parental       smoking, particularly in the United States.
The US Environmental       Protection Agency's initiative on smoke-free homes and cars [C] refers       specifically to the Surgeon-General's report as evidence of adverse health       effects [D] and has prepared a multilingual brochure, available in       hardcopy and online [E], explaining the effects of secondhand smoke on the       health of young families.
Since 2008, legislation to ban smoking in private vehicles when children       are passengers has been introduced in several states of the USA: Arkansas,       California, Hawaii, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Utah and most recently       (June 2013) in Oregon.
Similar bans exist in Australia, Bahrain, Canada,       Cyprus, Mauritius, South Africa, and United Arab Emirates.
Legislation is       under consideration in Finland, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands and       Taiwan [F].
The UK has been slower to develop similar initiatives, but the Action on       Smoking and Health (ASH) policy briefing in 2009 [G] built upon our       1997-1999 publications.
Following the publication of the Royal College of       Physicians (RCP) Report in 2010 [H] (which was based in part on our       updated review of health effects in younger children [reference 6 above]),       a revised ASH briefing paper cited both the Surgeon-General's and Royal       College of Physicians' reports as evidence on parental smoking and       ill-health among children [I], and a January 2012 ASH factsheet on smoking       in cars refers to both the SCOTH and RCP reports as evidence of risks to       children [J].
At the time of writing (July 2013), political pressure is       building within the UK, particularly in Scotland [K], for legislation to       outlaw smoking in cars when children are present.
Online NHS guidance [L] specifically refers to the adverse effects of       parental smoking on the health of young children and advises: "One of         the best things you can do to protect other people and children is to         keep your home and car smoke-free by smoking outside, as smoke can         linger for up to two-and-a-half-hours."
Thus, our work has had demonstrable impact on the direction of public       policy and publicity campaigns, both in the UK and overseas.
We also note,       with amusement, that in 2012 a new Canadian version of Clement C Moore's       classic poem Twas the Night Before Christmas was published with       two lines (referring to Santa Claus's pipe) removed in an attempt to limit       children's exposure to images of smoking [M].
This must be a rare example       of epidemiological research having a cultural impact on the fictional       literature, but we hesitate to suggest that there will be any resulting       health benefits, except, perhaps, north of the Arctic Circle..!
