     The European Union (EU) has designated 2013 to be the "Year of Air"       during which a comprehensive review of the air quality policies has been       undertaken.
To inform this review, the REVIHAAP (Review of Evidence on       Health Aspects of Air Pollution) project was co-funded by the EU DG       ENVIRONMENT and WHO Regional Office for Europe, to answer 24       policy-related questions about air pollution and health.
Included in this       review was consideration of whether new evidence was sufficient to revise       the WHO 2005 Air Quality Guidelines, published in 2006 [A].
Anderson was a       member of the REVIHAAP Scientific Advisory Committee and Atkinson was an       expert advisor and contributor to the report, especially sections on       ozone.
The following sections of the REVIHAAP July 2013 report [B] refer to the       Air Pollution Epidemiology Database (APED) which is a systematic review       facility established at St George's to provide continuously updated       meta-analyses of time-series evidence, as described in document REF3a.
APED incorporated the results of the underpinning time-series studies into       a cumulative meta-analysis, commissioned specifically for the REVIHAAP       report:            Pages 52-55 &amp; table 2: Use of ozone coefficients from APED,         including APHENA [4]       Pages 74-76 &amp; table 5: Use of NO2 coefficients from APED       Pages 145-149 &amp; table 11: Use of SO2 coefficients from APED       Pages 217-218: References (APED cited as Anderson HR et al.
2007, but see REF3a.)
Linked with REVIHAAP, and extending from it, the HRAPIE (Health Risks of       Air Pollution in Europe) review [C] recommends concentration-response       functions for cost-benefit analysis to guide future policies for air       pollutant control.
Anderson is a member of the Scientific Advisory       Committee and Atkinson is an advisor and contributor of evidence to       HRAPIE.
Coefficients from time-series studies provide the key evidence       base for estimating response functions and cost-benefit analyses for all       gaseous pollutants.
Also, the observation that time-series analyses show similar effects of       short-term fluctuations in PM on health outcomes worldwide [D] buttresses       the argument that there is a causal association between respirable       particulate exposures and diverse health outcomes, including       non-respiratory mortality.
This conclusion, linking time-series work with       chronic effects of PM, was also reached by the UK Department of Health       COMEAP in 2010 [E].
Results from time-series studies also underpin the 2011 COMEAP subgroup       report on UK Air Quality Standards, on which Anderson was a committee       member [F].
This used APED to update the WHO 2005 Air Quality Guidelines       [A] from which was developed a Daily Air Quality Index (DAQI) with       bandings indicating likely short-term health effects.
The DAQI is now       implemented as a public information system online [G] and during periods       of high air pollutant levels, health warnings are incorporated into       national weather forecasts for the UK.
Time-series methods have been extended to studies of the effects of heat       waves and climate change.
Although sulphate is a cooling agent, black       carbon and ozone could together exert nearly half as much global warming       as carbon dioxide.
The complexity of these health and climate effects of       shorter-lived greenhouse pollutants needs to be recognised in mitigation       policies.
Links between strategies to reduce greenhouse gases and public       health outcomes were reviewed in 2009 by a consortium in which Anderson       and Atkinson were involved [H].
Assessment of the relative importance of 67 risk factors, worldwide and       by region, formed part of the Global Burden of Disease 2010 project (GBD).
Anderson co-chaired the GBD subgroup assessing health effects of outdoor       air pollution, which evaluated both ambient particulate pollution and       ambient ozone [I].
An analysis of burden of disease due to air pollution       in the UK found that this had fallen by over 50% between 1990 and 2010,       reflecting mainly improvements in air quality over this time resulting       from effective environmental policies [J].
