     The research relating to Conservative Management has already had a       substantial impact on care delivered to patients in the NHS and worldwide.
The associated publications have played a major role in persuading       clinicians in Renal Services across the UK that CM is a viable treatment       option for frail elderly patients with advanced kidney disease, and have       contributed to establishing CM programmes within many Renal Services       across the UK and other countries.
The initial impact occurred in local Renal Services within Hertfordshire       and Bedfordshire.
The characterisation of a high-risk haemodialysis       patient group, with poor short-term survival, prompted from 2000 onwards a       reconfiguration of pre-dialysis pathways.
Patients, relatives and carers       were counselled about prognosis and about CM as a treatment option.
The       aims were supportive, focused on symptom control and provision of       palliative care.
This approach was viewed as ground-breaking by many in       the renal community, and the team led by Farrington won the British         Journal of Renal Medicine Innovations Award in 2001.
As a result the       approach became more widely known, as team members were invited to give       talks in renal units across the country.
Team members also contributed to       the Kidney Alliance document (Sect.
5, Ref.
5.1), which included       putative National Service Standards for Conservative and Supportive Care.
A 2003 publication by the clinicians involved in the research (Ref.
5.2)       formally presented and disseminated the findings that survival may not be       significantly enhanced by dialysis in comparison to CM in high-risk       patients.
Widely cited (Google scholar: 155 citations), it has been       effective in reaching other clinicians and NHS decision makers.
It was       quoted in the National Service Framework for Renal Services (2005) (Ref.
5.3), underpinning the Quality Requirement that `people with established       renal failure receive timely evaluation of their prognosis, information       about choices available to them, and for those near end of life, a jointly       agreed palliative care plan, built around individual needs and       preferences'.
The research influenced Health Policy and Clinical Guidelines in other       ways.
Farrington co-authored both the Department of Health Kidney Care       document `End of Life Care in Advanced Kidney Disease' (Ref.
5.4) and,       with the help of staff at the university's Centre for Life Span and       Chronic Illness, co-authored the UK Renal Association Guidelines on       `Planning, Initiating and Withdrawal of Renal Replacement Therapy' (Ref.
5.5).
Farrington and Da Silva Gane co-authored health information       literature for Kidney Care UK (Ref.
5.6).
Further dissemination came via       Farrington's invitations to speak on the topic at the World Congress of       Nephrology, Renal Association of Ireland, and Royal College of Physicians       (Edinburgh and London) between 2007 and 2012, and co-chairmanship of the       planned European Renal Best Practice (ERBP) clinical practice guideline on       the management of CKD in frail and elderly patients, reflecting growing       interest in adoption of this management approach.
The establishment of CM Programmes continues to expand in the UK and       other parts of the world.
A UK Renal Registry survey (Ref.
5.7) revealed a       high prevalence of CM programmes across the UK, but with considerable       organisational variation between centres.
Fifty-four centres (75%)       followed patients in a general clinic, 18 (28%) utilising a dedicated CM       clinic, and 14 (19%) employing renal palliative nurses for outreach       community care.
Around 20% of patients with ESKD over 75 years old were       considered to be receiving CM.
The CKMAPPS UK National Survey (2013) (Ref       5.8) found that 66 of the 67 responding renal units (from a total of 72)       had CM patients.
A recent survey of European nephrologists estimated that       conservative care was provided to up to 15% of their patients (Ref.
5.9).
Similarly, in Australia around 15% of units reported having a formal CM       programme, with around 65% of ESKD patients being offered the choice of CM       and about 14% choosing this option (Ref.
5.10).
This translates worldwide       into a large number of patients.
There is potential for cost saving,       although this is difficult to quantify and is not the primary focus, which       is to enhance quality of life and end-of-life care.
