     From 2010, Dr Corazza worked with drug charity DrugScope to determine an       effective communication strategy for disseminating new drug information to       young people as well as analytical chemists, toxicologists, nurses/other       health professionals, charities, drug workers, and law enforcement       agencies in Britain and worldwide.
The Rednet database contained technical       reports and factsheets for 650 drugs: on DrugScope's advice, the folders       were presented in a `Q&amp;A' format with comprehensive sources, and the       factsheets as two-page, `quick read' versions of the folders.
Corazza and       Schifano publicised Rednet via press releases, using conferences, seminars       and technological tools such as social networking and virtual learning       environments for over 2,000 professionals, academics and policy makers in       over 30 countries.
A 2013 survey of 270 professionals on the Rednet       mailing list, chiefly physicians, revealed that 59% of respondents used       the Rednet resource in their work.
[Section 5, Ref.
5.1]     Smail     In 2012 Corazza began to develop the innovative idea of integrating SMS       and email (`Smail') to deliver accurate information quickly and       efficiently to frontline workers.
A significant finding from the survey of       health professionals (Section 2) was the overwhelming preference for       receiving information updates via email (76%), with less enthusiasm for       e-newsletters, websites, social networks, texts and conferences (40%, 30%,       8%, 5% and 1% respectively).
The free Smail texting service was piloted April 2012-July 2013 to       satisfy these preferences and the expressed desire for real-time rapid       responses in the fast-moving world of so-called `legal highs'.
Registered       users use Smail to request information about new drugs: for example,       A&amp;E staff or police officers faced with emergencies can text a       substance's `street', brand or chemical name to Smail and receive       evidence-based information within seconds.
If Smail cannot respond       immediately, Rednet researchers speak to the service user, investigate       further, and report back.
These exchanges also allow the database to be       updated with emerging trends and issues.
The pilot involved 126 registered users in 14 countries (from northern       and southern Europe to north America, Australia, Asia and Russia): 42%       were healthcare professionals, 25% field workers, 25% researchers, and 8%       regulatory and governmental (including police and the US army).
In total,       741 text requests were received and translated into rapid-response       information searches.
Since March 2013, users have registered via a       dedicated website, and the considerable interest in the team's work is       evidenced by its web traffic.
Between March and July 2013, there were       3,148 unique visitors from 81 countries, most from the UK (2,751), with       others from Italy (712), Australia (199), US (174), Canada (145), Norway       (140), Belgium (118), Portugal (112), Germany (107), Spain (106) and the       Netherlands (73).
[Ref.
5.3]     Smail Users: Two Examples     Medical: Tropicamide Abuse in Trento, Italy     In March 2013, the Trento Addiction Treatment Unit observed an unusual       increase in sales of Tropicamide, typically used as eye drops.
Within 24       hours of receiving their Smail request, and using Internet research,       Corazza had sent an initial report on previously unknown Tropicamide       abuse.
Finding evidence of IV injections and a fatality in Russia, she       made contact with Russian researchers and consulted the GPHIN (Global       Public Health Intelligence Network) database, a Health Canada and WHO       secure Internet-based early warning system that monitors media reports in       multiple languages, to which she had been granted access.
Within two       months Smail researchers had published a report in General Hospital         Psychiatry, highlighting for the first time the intravenous misuse       of Tropicamide, and the Russian death.
[Section 3, Ref.
4] To inform more       widely and prevent further harm an alert was issued, in collaboration with       the Trento unit, via the Italian Early Warning System to its network of 70       collaborative centres (including forensic toxicologists, universities, and       police), 22 clinical centres, 551 addiction treatment units, 101 emergency       centres and others.
[Ref.
5.4]     [text removed for publication]
