     Technologies derived from our in silico and in vitro/ex vivo       models have been exploited by several pharmaceutical companies [text       removed for publication] in their drug candidate selection process.
Patch         in a Can&#174; (MedSpray&#8482;) improves delivery of therapeutic       compounds to superficial layers of the skin.
Unlike current marketed       patches, the spray is manufactured as a solution but during dose actuation       assembles into a microfine occlusive film.
This provides a highly       thermodynamically active system that dramatically increases drug release.
The technology enables the potency of certain drugs to be increased       without having to increase the dose, thus reducing side-effects.
As such,       the MedSpray research has been used nationally and internationally by the       pharmaceutical industry.
Specifically, our research tested and optimised MedSpray formulations,       including terbinafine (TerbiMed), for the treatment of athlete's foot;       TerbiMed received regulatory approval for Phase II clinical trials in       2009.
The formulation demonstrated complete mycological cure in 83% of       patients after a single application.
The technology demonstrates good       patient acceptability and is well tolerated with low rates of       reoccurrence.
This indicates a significant improvement in management of       the disease, which affects about 15% of the population and is present in       about 40% of all patients who attend clinics for any medical concern.
It       is an important and a significantly prevalent infection, with chronic       episodes common in patients with concomitant diabetes and       immunosuppression.
The existing standard treatment regimes involve the       application of topical antifungals for up to 4 weeks, which can cause       issues of compliance and might be one reason why the condition has had a       high rate of recurrence (c.35%).
TerbiMed now provides a formulation that       has been shown clinically (2009) to cure the infection after one       treatment, and the product was subsequently licensed to Sinclair       Pharmaceuticals in 2010 (Section 5, Ref.
1); [text removed for       publication]     The successful clinical trial also resulted in the MedSpray technology       being licensed to six other global pharmaceutical companies for different       applications; for reasons of confidentiality, further details cannot be       disclosed.
The technology is, however, used with a number of topical and       transdermal drugs.
MedTherm (developed with MedPharm funding; [text       removed for publication] a thermophoretic technology developed by Brown,       Wood and McAuley, is licensed to a major pharmaceutical company and       commenced preclinical Proof of Concept studies in 2013.
[text removed for       publication]     The predictive models used on behalf of Graceway Pharmaceuticals       generated an effective lower strength imiquimod formulation, with       predicted lower incidences of side-effects, and expedited their       formulation development process.
This allowed them to make considerable       savings on product development.
Further, our research data directly       influenced their decision-making on the final composition of the marketed       product.
The data we generated was included in the documentation submitted       to the FDA, and the new product (licensed April 2010: NDA 022483), known       as Zyclara in the US, [text removed for publication]     Approximately 25-60% of adults have at least one actinic keratosis, and       5-20% of all untreated cases progress to squamous cell carcinomas,       resulting in an estimated 3,000 deaths per annum in the USA.
Similar       models were used on behalf of Peplin Australia in developing and selecting       the final formulation of Picato, which gained US regulatory approval in       January 2012, and in Europe later the same year, for the treatment of       actinic keratosis (NDA 202833).
Peplin was acquired by Leo Pharma in 2009       for $287.5m, [text removed for publication]     Hertfordshire's fundamental research on nail formulations enabled [text       removed for publication] to develop a formulation equivalent to [text       removed for publication], resulting in a successful marketing       authorisation application to the EMEA [text removed for publication];
