     The Science of Happiness Project     Using Professor Wiseman's participative approach, this 2009 project was a       large-scale initiative designed to help boost subjective wellbeing.
Before       its launch, an opportunistic sample (N=786) of participants was recruited       from the general public via a social media campaign.
Acting as       participant-informants, they aided the project's design by identifying       some of the key attributes that Internet-based happiness interventions       needed to possess if they were to have mass appeal.
Participants were then asked to imagine that there was a psychological       technique that provided a small but real boost to their happiness (e.g.,       writing down the things in their life for which they had a sense of       gratitude), and that they were going to be taught the technique via the       Internet.
Next, they were asked to indicate the preferred mode of delivery       used to explain the technique (text, video or both), how long they would       be prepared to spend reading or listening to these instructions, how long       they would be prepared to spend carrying out the technique, and how       quickly they would want the exercise to have some form of impact.
The majority of participants indicated that they would like the exercise       to be delivered via both video and text, that they would be willing to       spend up to 10 minutes learning about the exercise and up to 10 minutes       carrying it out, and that they would like to feel some kind of impact       within a few days.
Wiseman then reviewed laboratory studies (including those by       psychologists Martin Seligman from the University of Pennsylvania, and       Sonja Lyubomirsky from University of California, Riverside) that had       experimentally examined various techniques designed to promote subjective       well-being, and used the participant feedback from the development phase       to select four approaches: the recognition of gratitude (encouraging       people to identify aspects of their life for which they have a sense of       gratitude), acts of kindness (encouraging people to help a friend or       stranger), facial feedback (encouraging people to smile and so induce the       emotion associated with that expression), and positive recollection       (encouraging participants to reflect on a positive life event).
Wiseman created short videos describing each of the techniques.
To help       assess the efficacy of the exercises he also created a control task (in       which participants were asked to merely think about the events of the day       before) and prepared a film to accompany this exercise.
The project was promoted via interviews in the national press and radio.
Members of the public were asked to visit the project website and discover       more about the initiative; over 20,000 people decided to take part.
Before       being allocated an exercise, each participant was asked to complete       various measures of their happiness, including a standard measure of       subjective well-being, the `Subjective Happiness Scale' (SHS), a       psychometrically validated scale commonly used in several studies       assessing the impact of happiness interventions.
Participants were then randomly allocated one of the four exercises or       the control task and asked to complete it on a daily basis for a week.
At       the project's end participants were asked to report how easy they found       the exercise and how often they had completed it.
They were also asked to       complete various measures of happiness a second time, including the SHS.
The results revealed that the techniques were highly effective (see       section 5, `Technical Report').
For example, around 42% of those in the       control group reported increased happiness, compared to around 55% of       those in each of the treatment conditions.
The `positive recollection'       exercise was especially effective.
Various activities extended the reach of the project by disseminating the       project results and the `happiness techniques' identified as being       effective to a wider audience:            The results were reported in the national press, including articles in         the Daily Mail, the Telegraph and the Guardian.
The videos used in the experiment were placed on YouTube and have         received over 50,000 views in total.
The exercises were reported in Wiseman's best-selling book on popular         psychology, 59 Seconds: Think a Little, Change a Lot         (2009).
This book has sold over 200,000 copies in the UK, and been         translated into over 20 languages.
The book has received a positive         reception, including the following appraisals:          `A triumph of scientifically proven advice over misleading myths of       self-help.
Challenging, uplifting and long overdue.
'&#8212; Derren Brown.
`The practical advice to be found on every page of 59 Seconds is vivid,       accessible, and refreshing.
It's the perfect antidote to the vague vacuous       nonsense crowding the shelves of self-help bookshops.'
&#8212; Sam Gosling       (Psychologist, University of Texas)     `Imagine taking thousands of papers from the vast world of psychology and       distilling them down to the most important, unexpected, salient and       straightforward lessons for how to live our lives.
That's Wiseman's book.'
&#8212; David Eagleman (Director of the Laboratory for Perception and Action,       Baylor College of Medicine).
