     AERU's 2006-12 research, described above, has significantly improved the       scientific understanding of ways to reduce agriculture-related net       greenhouse gas emissions and help meet national and European targets.
Since AERU identified modifications in specific farming practices to       encourage greenhouse gas emission reductions and enhance the carbon       storage in soils and biomass, various policy instruments have incorporated       the recommended changes, and a range of guidance materials for farmers,       their advisors and policy makers have been developed.
For example, the Environmental Stewardship scheme evaluations highlighted       a number of prescribed practice alterations that would reduce net       emissions.
These included: reducing soil cultivation depth to decrease       fuel consumption; encouraging springtime manure application to improve       crop nutrient availability and reduce ammonia emissions; prohibiting the       application of inorganic nitrogen fertilisers to rush pastures, in order       to reduce soil emissions; and increasing the width of non-cropped margins       around woodland to eliminate soil disturbance and so increase carbon       sequestration.
The study also recommended additional practices that the       scheme should encourage, such as hedgerow restoration.
Defra accepted all       of these recommendations, and they are an established part of the ES       Scheme.
It is difficult to quantify the impact on reducing greenhouse gas       emissions, but one rough indicator can help place it in perspective: in       2009, 2.44 million ha of farmland was managed under ES agreements.
If       management of just 5% of this land shows a modest 0.5% increase in soil       organic carbon in the top 10cm of soil, roughly an additional 22t/ha       carbon dioxide is sequestered, or around 2.7 million tonnes in total &#8212;       equivalent to approximately 0.5 million passenger flights around the earth       (40,000 kilometres).
AERU's research is specifically mentioned as a       guidance source for the South West Climate Action Plan 2008-2010, which       describes the activities required to support the region mitigate and adapt       to the impacts of climate change.
A Defra publication reviewing the       success of the agri-environment schemes also references it, and a Natural       England contact has stated that AERU's ES scheme work is at the heart of       their evidence base for this subject area.
Since November 2012, Rural Development Programme (RDP) Managing       Authorities in EU member states have been using the OSCAR project's       guidance manual and online software to optimise the design of national       programmes to ensure that, as well as delivering the main RDP objectives       of restoring and enhancing the competitiveness of rural areas and farming,       they also deliver climate change benefits.
Contacts at Defra and Natural       England have stated that AERU's OSCAR and Environmental Stewardship work       will be used to support their the ES Schemes development work in the next       financial phase of the Common Agricultural Policy.
AERU's research has also influenced farming methods across Europe.
Farmers must comply with all aspects of the ES scheme to receive subsidies       and grants, which consequently creates climate change benefits.
Natural       England and Defra have used the ES research to formulate a suite of land       management guidance material for farmers and other land managers, aiming       to reduce agricultural greenhouse gas emissions on their land.
For       example, Natural England published a farmers' guidance manual and a poster       entitled `Making the most of Environmental Stewardship'.
A Technical       Information Note for land managers and advisers (TIN107) explained how the       right farming practices can make a significant difference to greenhouse       gas reductions.
AERU's National Trust work generated guidance material for farmers on the       Wallington estate, including detailed maps showing where to spatially       target specific practices, and step-by-step guidance material to help       mitigate emissions.
Trialled by an independent consultant, this material       has been used with regional Natural England and National Trust advisors,       to extend the reach of the research to National Trust estates across       England and Wales.
Farmers are encouraged to monitor and manage their carbon emissions by       using carbon calculators.
Lack of sensitivity to farming practices omits       potential reductions to the carbon balance, and renders them unsuitable       for action plan development.
AERU's research is changing this.
Its       calculator (IMPACCT), freely available to farmers, was designed       specifically for formulating mitigation and adaption plans.
Core data from       this research programme informs other publicly available calculators.
As a       contact at Natural England can confirm, the CALM tool, a widely       disseminated, third-party software tool, has implemented AERU's data to       upgrade and make it more useful to ES Scheme farmers.
It is used by       farmers worldwide; the CALM website (www.calm.cla.org.uk)       also reports that land managers use it to help secure supermarket       contracts and reach grain quality assurance standards.
