     For Tunstall and Warman the radical Enlightenment agenda was always about       reaching beyond an elite group of highly-educated, highly-privileged       individuals to bring education, awareness, and self-determination to as       many people as possible, in as many different ways as possible.
They       reflect this essential agenda in their work outside of academia and for       them it is a natural and necessary extension of their jobs as researchers       and educators.
Based on their innovative perspectives on Enlightenment writing, Tunstall       and Warman have contributed to enriching the lives and imaginations of the       wider non-academic public by bringing the debates of the French       Enlightenment to them, making the topic accessible and meaningful to a       non-specialist audience through a broad range of lively and enjoyable       public engagement activities.
Kate Tunstall was interviewed for the BBC2 series `Fry's Planet Word' (30       December 2011, 4/5) on the Encyclop&#233;die, Diderot and the       Enlightenment.
The series had viewing figures of 1.5 million.
Tunstall was       quoted in the book to accompany the series Planet Word: The Story of         Language from the Earliest Grunts to Twitter and Beyond (Davidson,       2011).One reader review on Amazon said `I've been watching the       series on the BBC and have been thoroughly enjoying it - Stephen relays so       much information and meets so many fascinating people.
The book takes the       discussions even further - and there are lots of other areas covered too.'
(Comment by `miss reader', 5 October 2011).
[i]     Caroline Warman received an invitation, based on her research, to be a       guest on Melvyn Bragg's series `In Our Time' aired on BBC Radio 4.
The       series discusses the history of ideas and Warman contributed to programmes       on `Materialism' (24 April 2008) and `Voltaire's Candide' (3 May       2012).
Live listening figures were 2.1 million, and the programmes remain       accessible on the BBC Radio iPlayer.
The BBC public enjoyed and were       stimulated by her contribution: `it was great listening to your take of       randomness and complexities!!!
Absolutely incredible!'.
By communicating       in a lively and enthusiastic way, Dr Warman sparked the interest of       listeners unfamiliar with the topic: `Caroline Warman [...] was absolutely       sparkling, speaking with wonderful excitement in her voice!
'; `My question       is prompted by a discussion colleague's comment below.
We are both       untrained in philosophy' [ii]     Warman and Tunstall co-wrote and co-presented four programmes exploring       the life and work of Diderot for the Radio 3 series `The Essay:       Enlightenment Voices' (broadcast Radio 3, 19-22 January 2010, with       listening figures of 202,000[1]).
Enlightenment Voices       was a mini-series introducing the great scientists, thinkers and activists       of the European Enlightenment.
The Oxford researchers not only introduced       Diderot and his work to the listeners but `playfully challenged the       listener to grapple with this quintessentially Enlightenment subject       themselves' according to the BBC website description.
One listener       commented: `Elucidators of the Enlightenment were never so informative and       so chirpy all at once'.
Regular radio listeners were enthused and inspired       by the programmes `We overhear a lot of radio, particularly since the       advent of the iPlayer, but we can hardly recall any previous programmes of       such infectious enthusiasm...' [iii]Invitations to       broadcast or to give public lectures provide further proof that producers       and organisers consider their contribution to be reliably entertaining and       instructive.
Tunstall and Warman widely communicate their research on the       debates of the French Enlightenment to enhance and enrich the public       discourse on modern society, its roots, its failings and tensions, and of       the experience of the individual within it.
Dr Warman has spoken at       various non-academic events in recent years.
This has allowed her to share       ideas and engage with participants about Enlightenment figures and       debates.
She spoke about Charri&#232;re in Jane Austen's home at Chawton[iv]       as part of a public lecture series (attendance 40, Jan 2010), and about       Sade to the Last Tuesday Society in Hackney (attendance 40, October 2012).
Tunstall's work has also impacted on people with or involved with sensory       disabilities and those engaged in human rights issues.
Based on her book Blindness         and Enlightenment: An Essay, Kate Tunstall discussed Diderot's Letter         on the Blind for the Use of Those who can See at a multi-media       performance, `Land of Silence and Darkness: Four Days of Talk and Action       connecting Movies, Blindness, Drawing, Perception and Neuroscience',       organised by the artist, Anna Lucas (Oxford, various locations, 14-17 May       2008).
[v]Her talk engaged the audience in questions of       art, science and cognitive deprivation (attendance 40).
The event       encouraged participation by people with sensory impairments and Kate's       talk was sign-language interpreted for the deaf.
Tunstall's work has       influenced the understanding of those working with visually impaired       people.
For example she was contacted by a dancer, who teaches tango to       people with visual impairment and is interested in the relationship       between vision and touch in dancing.
She had read Blindness and         Enlightenment and felt compelled to write "I often had ideas that       somehow could not provide evidence for, but your book is giving me so many       [...] I am not an academic, I like to back my artistic process with lots       of reading..." [2]     Tunstall's research and its communication has impacted on civil society,       in relation to illuminating and challenging cultural values and social       assumptions relating to human rights.
Tunstall is a Director of Oxford       Amnesty Lectures (OAL), created to sustain debate about human rights       through annual lectures by international speakers.
Average attendance       figures are 150-200 per lecture.
Based on her Enlightenment research       Tunstall developed the 2010 series, on Human Rights and the Enlightenment,       with speakers exploring the historical contexts from which human rights       emerged, and their status as truths, today[vi].
All       profits from Oxford Amnesty Lectures ticket sales and book sales are       donated to Amnesty International.
To date, since 1992 OAL has raised over       &#163;108,000 for Amnesty International UK Charitable Trust.
Through a determination to publish their research in popular presses (e.g.
Penguin, Bloomsbury) and their extensive translation of key French texts     from and about the Enlightenment, Warman and Tunstall have provided     non-academic audiences with unique opportunities for cultural enrichment     through increased accessibility.
Tunstall conceptualised and edited the     book, Self-Evident Truths (Bloomsbury 2012), which brought together     texts by an unusual range of interdisciplinary academics and non-academics     (a poet, a journalist, and a psychoanalyst) based on the OAL 2010 lecture     series.
She selected Bloomsbury as the publisher, to market the book to a     wider public audience.
One the back cover Chris Bertram, Professor of Social     and Political Philosophy, University of Bristol, UK says: `This volume     exemplifies how the Oxford Amnesty Lectures not only reflect but also enrich     the debate on human rights in the contemporary world.
This is a sparkling     set of essays that illuminate the problematic and ambiguous legacy of the     Enlightenment and the enduring tensions between slogans of universal liberty     and the lived human experience of its pursuit and enforcement, between     securing the conditions of democratic conversation and upholding individual     rights.'
Blindness and Enlightenment has also provoked eloquent     testimonials from readers, one of whom was herself going blind: she emailed     to say `You made a subject that can often be heavy going and dreary into a     wonderful read, and I almost yelled aloud in the reading room when I found     it.'
[3]     New translations by Warman and Tunstall have enabled readers to discover       literature on French Enlightenment, previously unreadable by       non-francophone audiences.
Tunstall's translation of Diderot's Letter         on the Blind is the first since 1770 and of La Mothe Le Vayer's       essay `Of a Man Born Blind', the first translation ever; Warman's       translation of 9 novellas by Charriere is the first wide-reaching       translation since 1925 of 4 of the stories, and the first translation ever       of 5 of them.
Tunstall and Warman selected, edited, and translated 11 articles written       in French by the eminent Enlightenment scholar Marian Hobson, and their       version is now being translated into Chinese.
[4] There       is great demand for this type of material in China but it is difficult to       translate from French.
By translating the text into English, Warman and       Tunstall have enabled this further translation and the inclusion of this       work in the Chinese market.
The Nobleman and Other Romances,       translated by Warman has been widely publicised by the publisher, Penguin,       with 2000 literature professors in the USA being offered free examination       copies.
The publisher anticipates the book will be incorporated in college       reading lists within 2-3 semesters.
[5]     There is continuous evidence throughout the submission period of their       continuing commitment to take their research beyond the academic sphere.
The forms their contributions take are varied and inventive, and their       translations and radio programmes look set to continue to provoke interest       over the coming years.
