     Since 2008, the WIBS technology developed by the university has been       widely adopted by diverse organisations in the UK and overseas.
Developed       primarily as a device to help protect against bio-terrorism, the generic       bioaerosol detection capabilities of the technology have proven to be       equally successful for detecting and classifying other, non-pathogenic,       airborne biological particles such as pollen grains and fungal spores.
It       has therefore been used extensively by members of the atmospheric science       and environmental monitoring communities to aid research into the       behaviour of natural bioaerosols that play such a prominent role in areas       such as public health (allergens, Farmer's Lung, etc) and the impact of       bioaerosols in areas of cloud microphysical processes, precipitation and,       ultimately, climate change (see, for example, Section 5, Reference 4).
This has led to a far broader exploitation base for the WIBS technology       than originally envisaged.
A UH-designed WIBS4 instrument 	     4.1 2008 onwards: Biological Organism Detection     WIBS core technology incorporating the use of xenon flashlamps to excite       potential bio-fluorophores in sampled environmental aerosol was licensed       by Biral Ltd, Portishead, Bristol, for use in their Verotect military       bioaerosol sensor and AFS Standalone Fluorescence Sensor, the latter for       use in areas such as disease transmission research, environmental       monitoring, etc.
These instruments continue to be marketed worldwide.
4.2 2008-10: Government Strategic Planning &#8212; Defence       [text removed for publication]     4.3 2008 onwards: Atmospheric Science and Environmental Monitoring     Public dissemination of the capabilities of WIBS technology (including       those in Section 3) quickly led to interest from other fields in which the       ability to detect and classify airborne biological particles in real time       was urgently required.
These included:            Atmospheric science, where WIBS for the first time allowed measurement         of time-varying bioaerosol fluxes into the atmosphere.
These naturally         occurring bioaerosol `plumes' play a vital role in cloud formation and         subsequent precipitation patterns, radiative cooling of the atmosphere;       Industrial hygiene, where monitoring bioaerosols in, for example, food         production facilities, clean-rooms, and hospital theatres is a priority;       Indoor and outdoor environmental monitoring of airborne allergens,         such as pollens and fungal spores, and airborne pathogens.
See Section 5 for representative end-user publications.
As part of this wider deployment of WIBS technology, specific variants       were commissioned from the university by governmental and other research       organisations in the UK, Eire, Germany, the US and Japan.
4.4 2009-11: Application in Vulnerable Civilian Contexts       [text removed for publication]     4.5 2012: Intellectual Property and Commercial Exploitation     The international patents and patent applications covering the WIBS       technology name University of Hertfordshire researchers Paul Kaye, Warren       Stanley, and Edwin Hirst as inventors.
Since the underpinning research for       WIBS was funded by Dstl, the patents were automatically assigned to the       Secretary of State for Defence, with royalties payable to the University       of Hertfordshire upon commercial exploitation.
A licence to commercially       produce WIBS instruments has since been granted by Ploughshare Innovations       Ltd (Dstl's intellectual property exploitation arm), to Droplet       Measurement Technologies (DMT) Inc., Boulder, Colorado, a world-leading       manufacturer of atmospheric measurement instruments.
Ploughshare are       continuing discussions with commercial organisations regarding licences in       fields other than atmospheric science.
