     The Centre for Astrophysics Research encourages its lecturers and       researchers to develop public engagement skills through delivering talks,       supporting national astronomy-related magazines, and assisting at events       such as the Open Evenings held at the university's Bayfordbury       Observatory, which receives around 4,000 visitors each year.
The Observatory's programme of inspiring public interest in astronomy       began in the late 1970s.
Starting with a single 0.5m telescope, it now has       seven domed telescopes, typical aperture 0.4m, a 4.5m radio dish and a       three-dish interferometer.
The recent automation of five of the seven       optical telescopes, providing remote control over the Internet and       queue-scheduled observing, permits increasingly efficient use of the       telescopes and people's time, thereby continuing to nurture practical       astronomy in the UK.
Observations include some of the extra-solar planet       candidates from Rocky Planets around Cool Stars (RoPACs), the       Hertfordshire-led, &#8364;3.2m EU-funded Marie Curie Initial Training Network,       and RoPACS has led to a significant stake in the European Space Agency's       potential exoplanet mission Echo, whose likely target list is also being       monitored at Bayfordbury.
In public engagement terms, such observations       emphasise that Bayfordbury is a working observatory to which the public       have access, increasing its attraction for visitors.
There are six Open Evenings a year.
There is a small charge (&#163;4 adults;       &#163;2 concessions) and they are always oversubscribed, with 400 first-time       and repeat visitors aged 5-70+ at each event.
Each evening is supported by       about 20 lecturers, researchers and research students, and is centred       around a single theme chosen from one of CAR's research strengths, with       talks given by one or more staff actively involved in the research.
Examples are: exoplanets, brown dwarfs, life on other planets, radio       astronomy, planetary nebulae, and supermassive black holes.
Visitors can also use the telescopes.
All optical telescopes have CCD       cameras, some with lucky-imaging to improve image quality - but on Open       Evenings eye-pieces are often used: seeing images with `your own eyes'       offers visitors direct, personal enjoyment of the night sky.
Even on       cloudy evenings people visit the domes, and a researcher is stationed in       each one to explain the facilities and the nature of the objects viewed.
The radio telescopes are controlled from the adjacent Patrick Moore       building, where a talk on radio astronomy is repeated several times.
The Science Learning Centre, the national astronomy specialist centre       next to the Observatory, is thrown open during open evenings, allowing       access to a lecture theatre, small planetarium, computer suite,       laboratories and cafe.
Several activities are held there, including talks,       planetarium shows, using the web to access astronomy databases and images,       and hands-on demonstrations, many of them child-centred.
For example,       Artist-in-Residence Reggie Valkenborgh was inspired by our work to use a       pinhole camera, made from a drinks can, to take images of the sky above       the Observatory, with a six-month time exposure.
She explained her       technique at open evenings and provided material for children to try it       themselves.
One of her images was chosen as NASA's Astronomy Picture of       the Day in 2012, which generated local and national interest.
(Section 5,       References 1-3)                       Visitors remark on the knowledge and enthusiasm of the staff, and how       this makes their visit `enjoyable', `interesting', `informative', `varied'       and `excellent'.
Feedback forms from just one Open Night reveal visitors       inspired to buy a telescope, consider studying physics at university, join       an astronomy society, or `look at the stars with family and friend in the       garden'.
Some people leave 5* comments on Tripadvisor, do blog writeups,       or send appreciative letters.
One blogger said that her son had been       `inspired .
.
.
to find out more and now he is talking about wanting to       become a scientist!'
(Refs 4-7)     The Observatory hosts about 50 group visits annually, including private       parties, brownie and scout troops, and schools.
The programme is similar       to the open evenings, and feedback is good.
For example: `I have heard       some very positive accounts this morning and it seems to have been a very       popular, enjoyable and informative visit for all concerned.
Given the       popularity of the visit and the wonderful show case that it is for UH .
.
.
it would be excellent if we could arrange a trip every semester.'
(Ref.
4)     At the Science Learning Centre, CAR staff run a wide-ranging presentation       for around 20 schoolteachers annually.
This `cutting-edge' course       (`Astrophysics', originally `From Hydrogen to Humans') is supported by a       &#163;60,000 RCUK grant and is often run in twilight hours, giving teachers the       opportunity to use the telescopes.
Although pioneered and still led       locally, it is now offered at other centres.
The course is also offered       annually to around 30 teachers as part of a Subject Knowledge Enhancement       course (SKE) for teachers whose initial training was not in physics.
As       the RCUK requires its cutting-edge courses to be continually updated and       to involve Council- funded researchers, CAR staff use this opportunity to       present their research within a broader context than the narrowly       academic.
Participant feedback is encouraging: teachers report a `much       improved knowledge of the Big Bang and exoplanets', or a `better       understanding of the formation of the universe'.
Importantly, course       content is shared with school colleagues, so that newly learned tools and       techniques are `filtering down to the other teachers of physics'.
Participants also feel that `more confidence and enthusiasm for       Astrophysics from me means [my] students are more motivated', and that       their students are `stimulated to find out more for themselves'.
