     German Waterways Board, NAG Ltd [text removed for publication]     Despite increasing awareness of the benefits of AD, these techniques are       not yet routinely used in modelling and optimisation outside a few niche       areas, due to a lack of suitable commercial tools.
The CompAD project       based at the University of Hertfordhire developed the world's first       industrial-strength Fortran compiler with built-in support for AD, based       on the NAG Fortran compiler.
Following successful completion of the second phase of the CompAD project       in September 2008, the research compiler was re-purposed to meet the       requirements of various end-users, as consultancy work carried out by       members of the CompAD research project team (including Jan Riehme, then a       research fellow at the university, now senior research scientist at       Software Tools for Computational Engineering, RWTH-Aachen).
For example, to predict flow and profile of sediment along the river       Danube, the German Waterways Board/Bundesanstalt f&#252;r Wasserbau has been       using the AD-enabled NAG Fortran compiler since August 2009, with a view       to making its dredging operations more effective &#8212; the Waterways Board is       responsible for 7,350km of inland waterways and 23,000 square km of       shipping lanes.
Instead of calculating just a single value for the       evolution at one point in time and space, the compiler-based Automatic       Differentiation approach allows a probability distribution of the       evolution to be automatically derived from the morphodynamic model.
Reliability analysis then allows the uncertain input parameters to be       ranked according to their level of uncertainty.
The new modelling approach       shows good agreement with the Monte Carlo approach previously used, but       (for first order reliability analysis) takes only 22 minutes instead of 5       hours.
The Waterways Board recognizes this advantage:     It cannot be hoped to overcome this [exponential computing time]       limitation of the Monte Carlo method only by increasing computer power.
Hence non-linear methods based on algorithmic differentiation seem the       more promising way.
[Sect.
5, Ref.
1]     Meanwhile, NAG Ltd has made the CompAD compiler available on a commercial       basis to its customers, including engineering and financial sector       organisations.
In response to customer requests, NAG took the commercial       decision to develop AD versions of a number of mathematical library       routines, using an enhanced version of the CompAD compiler.
[text removed       for publication]     In particular, NAG is already providing AD software and consultancy       services based on the CompAD research.
[text removed for publication]     The C++ tools involved     were developed in partnership with RWTH-Aachen, building on the research       pioneered by the CompAD project.
[text removed for publication]     Thales Group, SAP and SSCH     Other compilation technology tools, including SAC, S-Net, and SVP &#8212; which       were developed at the university by Professor Alex Shafarenko and Dr       Sven-Bodo Scholz (formerly Reader at Hertfordshire, now Professor at       Heriot-Watt) in conjunction with EU grant academic and industrial partners       &#8212; have been taken up by industry.
Following completion of the Aether       project in 2009, Thales group successfully applied our technology to a       pre-existing signal processing application [Sect.
5, Ref.
5]; SAP (the       largest software consultancy company in Europe) has been using our tools       since 2010 to solve NP-hard optimisation problems; and SCCH benefits from       significant speed-ups of their classification algorithms.
An expert from       SAP headquarters in Karlsruhe, Germany, wrote in November 2012 to say       that:     We found that S-Net gives us an easy way of changing the parallel       implementation of the ACO algorithm.
Using the S-Net technology, we could       quickly try different approaches to modeling concurrency simply by       changing a few lines in S-Net code, .
.
.
S-Net imposes only very little       overhead compared to another standard parallelization approach and it       offers the opportunity to efficiently utilize the available number of       parallel processor cores.
Further tribute comes from the Head of Knowledge-Based Technologies at       SCCH, who has said that, thanks in large part to the EU FP-7 project       Advance (2010-12), which supported this aspect of the university's       research and knowledge transfer, `high performance computing has become an       established technique at SCCH', and `we are very thankful to be integrated       in your active and motivating research team'.
Impact via export of former project personnel includes Stephan Herhut       who, following his PhD (2012), was headhunted by Intel Research in Silicon       Valley, to develop proprietary compilation technology.
