     Stimulating Debate     Research into Kaspar's therapeutic and educational use with children with       autism is advanced, although much more work is needed to further show the       therapeutic/educational benefits for children with autism.
The greatest       impact between 2008 and 2013 lay in stimulating public and practitioner       debate, and advancing understanding of robots and autism therapy.
Public discourse was informed via national and international television,       internet and print media coverage.
Between January 2009 and July 2013,       over 120 press and online stories appeared on robot therapy, each citing       or focusing on Kaspar; in March 2012 alone, 11 Canadian newspapers picked       up a Reuters report on autism that featured Kaspar prominently.
These       sources &#8212; chiefly in the UK, US and Canada but also India and Australia &#8212;       included prestigious outlets such as the Los Angeles Times, The Hindu       and BBC News online.
In-depth TV coverage of the university's work       appeared on Japanese national TV (24 May 2008), and Fern Britton's show       and The One Show (both 2011), and an Associated Press report was       watched by over 24,000 Youtube viewers between March 2011 and July 2013.
The team frequently attends public events.
On 28 November 2012, for       example, Kaspar and associated research was presented at the London       Science Museum's public `Lates' evenings.
Of 120 attendees, 58 completed a       questionnaire: 83% said they found the research surprising and 74% that it       changed their views on robots; 91% wanted to know more about how robots       could assist people with special needs, and 97% felt the event had       stimulated public discussion on assistive robots.
Similarly, 2011-12 saw       Kaspar at the Autism Show (London), Autism Central (Birmingham), NAIDEX       (London), and the National Autistic Society conference (Manchester).
Kaspar-related talks, lectures and demonstrations occurred at a symposium       celebrating 100 years since the birth of Alan Turing (Edinburgh, May       2012); the National Autistic Society professional conference (Manchester,       March 2012), the regional Speech and Language therapists gathering       (Hertford, December 2012), and a symposium for autism clinicians (Israel,       June 2012).
In May 2013, 145 people saw Kaspar demonstrated at a       healthcare event at the University of Hertfordshire, with a keynote       address by Jane Asher, the National Autistic Society's president.
Reactions to Kaspar can be critical &#8212; it reminds adults of `evil'       fictional robots.
But once it is `in action' they can see a complex system       with specific features aimed at helping children with autism to learn       about human communication and interaction.
When parents observe their       children interacting with Kaspar, they realise its therapeutic       possibilities, and that it is not meant to be a cuddly toy.
One comment       from a public event is typical: `Initially I thought Kaspar was creepy,       but after seeing how he improves the children's behaviour I was very       impressed.'
(Section 5, Ref.
7)     Working with Parents and Carers     Close collaboration with carers and teachers of children with autism has       helped define Kaspar sessions adapted to individual therapeutic and       educational needs.
About forty families attended events in 2009 and 2011,       and a professional day involved around thirty practitioners working with       this client group.
Such events aimed to gather structured feedback from       potential primary and secondary users; informal comment also informed       research directions and appeared to indicate that Kaspar could help some       children socially.
One woman said of her daughter:     She's actually got proper friendships now.
Children used to approach her       and she'd be a bit [wary].
Around the same time as working with Kaspar,       she'd start to embrace this a little bit more and she was happy to hold       hands and hug.
Affection used to always be on her terms and if you didn't       say, `Can I have a hug?'
and you just went and hugged her, then you might       have got scratched or something like this, so you always had to pre-warn       her.
Whereas now it's much more spontaneous.
(Ref.
8)     Such tentative, encouraging input has been important in Kaspar research       development.
Dissemination to Other Researchers     In terms of number of long-term studies performed, the team's work with       Kaspar is advanced, and Dautenhahn and Robins are often invited to give       presentations to other research groups.
In 2013, Kaspar was included in       the Dutch healthcare project `Social Robots in Care', whose leader wanted       social robots that had the `potential to actually solve a care problem'       and `already were heading in the right direction'.
The project leader       reported that the Hertfordshire team had `demonstrated with KASPAR a       remarkable sensitivity of what is important for care', and believes that       its inclusion in his project is one of the reasons it received national       funding (Ref.
10).
Commercialisation     Tamie Salter, a former Hertfordshire doctoral student, now CEO of       Canada-based Que Innovations, has said: `My PhD .
.
.
completely inspired       my decision to start a company that develops robotic devices for children       with Autism' (Ref.
10).
Que Innovations has completed the design and       initial trial phase for the QueBallTM (previously `Koule')     [text removed for publication]
