     Since the 1990s, it has become clear that quantitative systems analysis       is a crucial step in       predicting the effect of drugs and other interventions on the human body.
`Systems Biology'       departments exist in most biomedical research institutions; funding       agencies have directed       significant resources towards the development of computational tools; and       old-fashioned       quantitative disciplines such as enzyme kinetics, sidelined during the       molecular genetics revolution       of the 1970s and 80s, have been re-energised.
Quantitative analysis of the responses of complex biological systems       requires compound       mathematical models and integrated computational approaches.
Experimental       data and small-       scale computational models may be available for small parts of such       systems, but the responses of       the whole will undoubtedly be different from the sum of the responses of       its parts.
Recognising the       need for integration of computational approaches and mathematical       modelling, Hamid Bolouri       (University of Hertfordshire), Hiroaki Kitano (Sony), and John Doyle       (Caltech) were the prime       movers from 2000 onwards in creating, disseminating and promoting SBML,       which has become       the de facto standard format for storing and exchanging biological       reaction network models.
Its       success can be measured by the fact that SBML has outgrown its original       base and continues to       be used and developed into the 2008-13 period.
In 2000, Bolouri instigated a series of workshops on Software Platforms       for Systems Biology.
Around half a dozen modelling and simulation tools developers attended the       first meeting, with       participant numbers growing rapidly and a computational modelling       `community' becoming       established.
The consortium's original mission was integrating simulation       analysis tools through a       `workbench', a software interoperability framework, but it transpired that       the most viable part of the       project was the Systems Biology Markup Language or SBML, the XML-based       common format for       model representation designed to enable model exchange.
The consortium       therefore concentrated       on shaping, expanding and promoting SBML.
A number of application developers were recruited, mainly to the       University of Hertfordshire and to       Caltech, their task to supply utilities such as editors, converters,       libraries and APIs, example       simulators, and a model repository which encouraged developers of client       software to implement       compliance with the language and help end users appreciate SBML's       possibilities.
The workshops, renamed SBML Forums in 2002, were initially held twice       yearly, but in 2004 they       differentiated into one SBML Forum and one SBML `Hackathon' annually.
After becoming satellites       of the annual International Conference of Systems Biology, attendance       increased dramatically.
The       Hackathon's web pages (see section 5, ref.
5) state that the event's focus       is the `development of       the standards, interoperability and infrastructure', offering a space       where `time is devoted to       allowing hands-on hacking and interaction between people focused on       practical development of       software and standards'.
Since 2008, attendee numbers, representing user       institutions worldwide,       has varied but generally shown an increasing trend, from around 26 in 2008       to 60 in 2011 and 44       in 2012.
The first SBML model repository was designed, populated, and hosted at       the University of       Hertfordshire; when it was converted into a relational database,       BioModels, and moved to a more       appropriate host (the EMBL-EBI in Hinxton, Cambridge, UK).
The publishers       of several major       journals whose readership extends well beyond academia, among them the       Nature Publishing       Group, Public Library of Science and BioMedCentral, opted to       require or recommend deposition of       published models in SBML format in the BioModels Database.
As of July 2013, 254 software tools have built-in or add-on SBML       compliance.
MATLAB, in the       MathWorks SimBiology&#174; package, and Mathematica, in the Wolfram       SystemModeler&#8482; module,       support import and export of SBML models, and numerous specialised       SBML-compliant tools       expose MATLAB or Mathematica APIs.
Users and developers of SBML-compliant       software, from       industry and academia, form a lively international community: the       discussion lists on the SBML.org       website have seen over 7,500 posts in total since September 2002.
The       initial project and its later       incarnations have brought experimental and theoretical biologists together       with software       developers, electronic engineers, control system specialists,       mathematicians, physicists, and       others with an interest in emergent properties of complex biological       systems.
At least one       company, Integrative Bioinformatics (IBI), has, according to its CEO,       `invested heavily in SBML'.
IBI bridges the increasing chasm that experimental life scientists need to       cross in their       interpretation and quantification of their data, by providing consultancy       services to R&amp;D labs &#8212;       those situated in academia as well as in the pharmaceutical industry (see       section 5, item 7).
SBML's mission continues: providing support for multi-component,       multi-scale models and model       composition has proven more problematic than initially envisaged, but the       SBML community       guarantees that discussions will be held in the open, and that everyone       with an idea or an interest       can contribute.
