     The Materials and Structures Research Group's research into the synthesis       of carbides of graded composition in metal matrices paid dividends when       the university was approached by Cambridge-based C4 Carbides in 2010.
C4       is an SME that trades internationally, primarily serving the power tool       accessory and industrial band saw blade industries, with interests also in       oil and gas, security, aerospace and motor sports.
Initially, C4 Carbides       wanted the research group to help solve quality issues related to the       brazing of diamond, and subsequently to enhance the braze-diamond bond in       several of their drill products.
The work by Dr Chrysanthou and his       research team that ultimately benefited this company was initially funded       by a short Knowledge Transfer Partnership (sKTP) in 2010, and followed by       a full KTP the following year.
The 2010 sKTP research showed that the bond between a metal matrix (or       braze) and carbides could be strengthened by chemically grading the       carbide composition so that there was a gradual decrease in the value of       the linear coefficient of thermal expansion when moving from the metal       into the carbide.
This is particularly helpful in brazed diamond tools: a       graded interfacial carbide will reduce stresses and cracks during       heating-cooling cycles when the drill is performing, and increase tool       life.
[text removed for publication]     With this knowledge, C4 Carbides was able to rectify the problem and       cease losing revenue on faulty products: the discovery of the reasons for       the quality issue immediately led to tighter controls of the tempering       process within both temperature and time limits, ensuring that in the       future there would be no complete separation of the carbide phases.
According to Mr Peter Nicolson, CEO of C4 Carbides, [text removed for       publication]     The sKTP led on to a full KTP (2011-13).
This is still in progress, and       is focusing on strengthening the braze-to-diamond bond to create tools       with improved life and cutting capability.
In order to achieve this, Dr       Chrysanthou and his research team are looking into the development of       alternative brazes and pre-brazing diamond coatings.
The investigation,       which is nearing completion, has already resulted in several early       benefits to C4 Carbides; for example, the thickness of the pre-brazing       diamond coating has been optimised for a bond for better cutting       performance.
First, the KTP has brought about improved performance and greater       consistency [text removed for publication]     Second, the KTP contributed materially to C4 Carbides' success in winning       a &#163;250,000 TSB smart award in 2012.
This is a strategically important       award for the company as it repositions itself to address the shift away       from tungsten carbide towards diamond products, and from a niche to a       mainstream market.
Mr Nicolson states that it has already fundamentally       altered the profile of the business, and he has accordingly put in place a       strategic five-year plan for C4 Carbides to build on this change as his       company continues to benefit from the research expertise of the Materials       and Structures Research Group, and Dr Andreas Chrysanthou in particular,       in facing the technical challenge of developing better ceramic-to-steel       bonding for new products.
Finally, the KTP is helping to establish a new strip line product in the       high-performance band saw sector; development is currently well underway       and on target for its scheduled launch in June 2014.
[text removed for       publication]
