     The TUC, Solidarnosc and OPZZ     The initial impact arose from a project that ran from 2006 to 2008,       funded by the Economic and       Social Research Council and led by Professor Jane Hardy.
At UK national       level, an invited session       was organised by Professor Hardy at the TUC's `Day for Decent Work' in       December 2008.
This       brought together international officers of the two main Polish trade union       federations, Solidarnosc       and OPZZ (representing 1.5 million workers between them), and Polish and       British project workers       or organisers in UK trade unions.
One practical outcome was the creation of a network at an early stage of       Polish-UK migration, and       a contact point at the Solidarnosc International Department where Polish       migrant workers could       access assistance with employment queries.
For both OPZZ and Solidarnosc,       the network       provided a channel of communication with British trade unions in dealing       with queries from Polish       workers in the UK regarding salaries, overtime and legal rights.
An OPZZ       representative has       acknowledged that Hardy's research helped his organisation to develop       contacts and networks       `indispensible' to their international work; while Solidarnosc has said       that Hardy's work, and their       collaboration with her via projects and conferences, contributed to `much       of our involvement and       success' in addressing the problems of labour migration.
According to       Robert Szewczyk,       International Officer of Solidarnosc, the direct contacts with Poles       working for the British unions as       organisers was found to be `precious to say the least'.
Communication Workers Union (CWU)     Policy research was also undertaken for individual trade unions.
A       project for the Communication       Workers Union (2009) mapped migrant workers in the union, evaluated       existing learning materials       and assessed their learning needs.
A set of learning materials was       subsequently produced.
The CWU reported to the university's researchers in 2011 that the       research had provided       `authoritative and credible feedback to our funding body, employers and       potential partners', adding       that this `is of immense value in facilitating further work in lifelong       learning'.
A representative of the       organisation said that the research had identified areas of good union       practice with regard to the       learning needs of its BME workers, and had also pinpointed areas that       required further work.
For       example, Hardy's work had uncovered `concentrations of BME workers on       night shifts that are not       so well served by current learning provision'.
As a result, the CWU began       working to address this       as part of their hard-to-reach learners project.
The Gateways to Learning resources that the university's research team       produced was found to be       `a very useful additional outcome of the project': the CWU confirmed that       it had been promoted to       their Union Learning Representatives and was made available as a resource       on their website.
Finally, the union said that, with regard to their lifelong learning       project and provision: `Overall the       information in the report has informed our future strategies.'
Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES)     Professor Hardy was also commissioned by the German social and political       development       organisation Friedrich Ebert Stiftung to produce a report on `Free       Movement in the EU' post-2004       (Section 3, Reference 5) to underpin debate among German politicians,       trade unions and other       stakeholders in preparation for the opening of the German labour market in       May 2012.
Copies of       the report were sent, in both English and German, to 2,000 people (1,000       in German, and 1,000 in       English) from the fields of politics, science/education and in NGOs, as       well as to all of the libraries       in Germany.
The FES has confirmed that the German version was downloaded       4,052 times in       2011, and the English version 4,127 times.
It is still available on seven       German government, NGO       or trade union websites, where it has informed debate about opening up       labour markets.
European Public Service Unions (EPSU)     The project for the European Public Service Unions, carried out 2011-12,       has produced perhaps       the greatest impact to date.
According to the EPSU president, it     `helped mobilise EPSU members around the issue of migration, to raise       awareness       about problems and opportunities of the cross-border mobility and       migration for health       workers, to start a structured exchange about possible trade union       strategies to deal       with its consequences both in countries with inward and with outward       migration.
It       helped EPSU to have an evidence-based and collectively developed       "knowledge base"       and a policy document for further use internally, in the framework of the       sectoral social       dialogue in the hospital sector and vis-&#224;-vis European institutions.'
EPSU made use of the report in several ways.
It formed, for example, the       basis of policy work,       implementation and follow-through of the EPSU-HOSPEEM Code of Conduct on       Ethical       Recruitment Data, and the research results and recommendations informed       EPSU's contribution to       an EC consultation (18 July 2012) on undocumented migrants working in the       personal and       household services sector.
Looking further afield, the organisation took the report and its findings       to their global network,       Public Services International (PSI), thereby forging a link between EPSU       and PSI research and       activities surrounding on the migration of health workers from African and       other countries.
It was       put to similar use by the International Labour Organisation office in       Manila, with which EPSU       collaborates, in promoting ethical cross-border recruitment.
