     The numerous outputs associated with Dagdeviren's research, outlined       above, have influenced the work and policy advice of a wide range of       high-profile international and non-governmental organisations.
This came       about via the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the       International Policy Centre for Inclusive Growth (IPC-IG) (formerly the       International Poverty Centre).
Dr Degol Hailu, Senior Policy Advisor at       the UNDP, has clarified the IPC-IG's role as a global think-tank for UNDP       policy setting and implementation.
Its reach is significantly extended, as       other global development organisations &#8212; such as the World Bank, the OECD       and the Third World Network &#8212; are informed by its publications, policies       and advocacy (see Ref.
5.4.1, below).
The impact described below occurred       between 2008 and 2012, arising through Dagdeviren's connection with the       UNDP and IPC-IG.
Impact on UNDP     Because of her expertise on privatisation, Dagdeviren was invited to work       as a policy advisor for the UNDP, acting as consultant for two projects on       the Macroeconomics of Poverty Reduction in Asia and Africa.
In addition to       the UNDP policy advisory reports that she produced, her report with Ben       Fine on privatisation in Asia contributed to a chapter in a UNDP policy       synthesis book, Pro-Poor Macroeconomic Policy (2008) (Ref 5.1.1,       below).
The book was used for policy advocacy, and as a dissemination       tool, to influence the policies of developing nation governments and reach       a wider audience via the UNDP's constituent networks of development       agencies, charities, anti-poverty campaigners and lobbyists.
In 2012, she was invited to deliver a training session on the       privatisation of water and sanitation services in connection with the       Millennium Development Goals.
For this session, delivered on 17 July 2012       jointly with Dr Hailu, Dagdeviren used the research findings detailed in       her Zambia (Ref.
3.1, above), Slums (Ref.
3.2), Argentina (Ref.
3.3) and       Ghana (Ref.
3.4) papers, while Dr Hailu covered issues arising from his       Kenya and Bolivia research.
Around twenty key UNDP staff (policy analysts,       programme specialists, programme coordinators) from the Bureau for       Development Policy attended this event.
The response was positive: of 11       completed questionnaires, 8 respondents rated the workshop as very useful,       with 9 confirming that the workshop content would directly or indirectly       inform their professional practice (Ref 5.1.2, below).
Impact on the International Policy Centre for Inclusive Growth     In 2008, the IPC-IG noted the importance of the policy recommendations       (i.e., to reduce unaccounted-for water rather than increase prices) in       Dagdeviren's article on the commercialisation of Zambia's water sector       (Ref 3.1, above).
That same year, the IPC-IG requested her permission to       reproduce the article's key findings in the form of short policy briefs       for advocacy and dissemination to a wider, non-academic audience (Refs       5.2.1. and 5.2.2, below).
She was also invited to become an IPC-IG visiting research fellow in       2008.
During her fellowship, she wrote a paper with Simon Robertson (one       of her former PhD students) on water supply problems in squatter       settlements (Ref.
3.3, above; see also Ref.
5.2.6 below).
She also       delivered a seminar to around twenty-five representatives of the Brazilian       government, working at senior level, and the IPC staff.
When IPC-IG       interviewed her about slums and sanitation, the full interview was       published and disseminated by direct emails to those in its contacts       database.
To increase its reach, the interview was made publicly available       on the IPC-IG website (Ref.
5.2.3, below).
Moreover, Dagdeviren's research findings on contractual disputes in       Argentina (see Ref.
3.4 above) were used by IPC-IG for its web-based       training platform, `South-South Learning on Social Protection' (Ref 5.2.5,       below).
Other Impacts     Thanks to the IPC-IG's dissemination strategies and advocacy, the policy       recommendations of the research published as `Waiting for miracles' and       `Access to water' (Refs 3.1 and 3.2, above) were further taken up and       exploited by other international organisations and NGOs.
For example:            Two global development NGOs, the Bretton Woods Project (2008) and Food         &amp; Water Watch (2011) included the main policy lessons in their         campaign against water privatisation (Refs 5.3.2 and 5.3.3, below).
The same material was used for training to improve policy-making         capacity: UNICEF, for example, used `Access to water' (Ref 3.2, above)         in its e-learning programme on socio-economic policies for child rights         (Module 4: `Public finance and social budgeting').
The programme was         designed for UNICEF's professional staff at all levels (Ref.
5.3.1,         below).
The World Bank's Water and Sanitation Programme used Dagdeviren's 2011         paper `Access to water' (Ref.
3.2, above) in forming its policy for         pro-poor units to improve service delivery in Africa (Ref.
5.3.4,         below).
