     While researching the `missing' WWI plays, Dr Maunder realised that they       could present today's audiences with a dimension of 1914-18 cultural life       that would allow them to see beyond the war poets and re-appraise their       understanding of the period.
He took the scripts to theatre companies that       regularly revive `lost' works, including the Orange Tree, Richmond; the       Finborough, London; Theatre Royal Brighton Productions; and the National       Youth Theatre.
All rejected the plays as unstageable or uncommercial.
Nevertheless, convinced that the works had contemporary resonance, in       2010 Maunder advertised for a director, recruited two with good track       records in period drama, raised production funds and nurtured small,       flexible `repertory companies' of experienced, professional actors who       remained with the project over two years and six productions.
In 2011, two       one-act spy plays (God Save the King and For My Country)       were performed at the Hertfordshire Heritage Hub's `Remembering World War       I' symposium.
The audience included ten pupils from St Albans, whose       teacher said they had gained `a different view of WW1 than the one which       is mentioned in History lessons.
It made them think from a very different       perspective and what life was like on the Home Front .
.
.
they didn't       realise that people would .
.
.
be willing to go and spy in that way.'
This prompted Maunder to consider school students as a particular       audience, especially those studying World War I for examinations, and this       group was accordingly added to the audience base for the project's next       phase.
In summer 2012 For My Country and The Pacifist were       performed at Newhaven Fort (East Sussex), attracting a paying public; in       concurrent development was Maude Deuchar's The Handmaidens of Death       (1919), a two-act drama about female munitions workers first performed at       [text removed for publication] St Albans, where some pupils joined the       professional performers on stage or wrote reviews.
A second production in       Hatfield in November 2012 was attended by thirty-five Stevenage       sixth-formers, who received copies of the script as A Level study texts.
At a 90-minute seminar afterwards, the students, soon to visit the French       battlefields, were struck by the play's alternative focus on women's       wartime experience and its suggestion that women shared responsibility for       the slaughter.
The performance was repeated that evening for a public       audience.
In January 2013, the project entered a third phase, of further       dissemination in advance of the 2014 centenary.
A July `showcase' in       central London, advertised via Time Out, specialist mailing lists       and a Twitter campaign, attracted a small but fully engaged audience who       braved one of the hottest nights of the summer to see The Pacifist.
One person commented that the play `opened my eyes to the official       attitude to the war on the home front', while another found that it       `portrayed a layer of meaning of pacifism in particular and the war in       general that I had not considered before'.
The fullest impact is strongly indicated to occur in the centenary year.
Dr Maunder has been asked to run a workshop on the plays at an English       Association/Historical Association event scheduled for April 2014,       supported by the British Library and featuring Michael Morpurgo as keynote       speaker.
Jermyn Street theatre, in London's West End, has offered a       week-long booking for May 2014, while Centre Stage youth theatre (Gretna)       is looking at Handmaidens as inspiration for a new work about a       local munitions factory.
Letchworth Arts Centre is planning several       performances of Handmaidens connected with a project on women,       munitions and pacifism, and other local groups are developing their own       productions.
Audience experience, reaction and feedback     The `lost' 1914-18 plays have offered an alternative to familiar post-war       representations such as Journey's End (1927) and Oh What a         Lovely War!
(1963).
They tend to express pro-war sentiments and       anxieties that today's audiences have sometimes found uncomfortable or       laughable but that also voice aspects of wartime life rarely found       elsewhere.
Analysis of audience surveys conducted after each show       suggested that well over half (68%) felt that the dramas had altered,       added to or complicated their views of the period.
Feedback gathered after       Handmaidens performances illustrates the powerful shift in       ingrained thinking that can occur:     `[It] reminded me of the number of spinsters and maiden aunts who were       around when I was growing up.
I had not really thought about the effect of       the loss of so many young men in this way before.'
`The play has given me a completely new perspective on WWI, of the women       who stayed at home and their concerns.'
School pupils who previously studied only the `war poets' felt that Handmaidens       augmented their knowledge `by posing questions that need to be       considered', and finding it `thought provoking &#8212; the ending is left very       open (and initially annoying!)'.
Tellingly, it also alerted one pupil to       alternative perspectives on women's lives at that time: `I think this play       has altered my perception of WWI as before I used to think that all the       women did was cry and wait for their husbands to come home.'
Audiences for The Pacifist were similarly intrigued `to see       pacifists portrayed as spies, as opposed to the more modern, positive idea       of pacifism', finding that the play `gave such a strong female voice to       the women back at home and highlighted the paranoia that must have been       present'.
Overall, audience reaction indicates that the project has filled a gap in       cultural understanding, reminding us that theatre-going remained a potent       force during the 1914-18 conflict.
