     The London Foundling Museum opened in 2004 to tell the story of the       hospital and its children, yet the Foundling Textiles remained in the       London Metropolitan Archives, relatively inaccessible and previously       virtually unknown outside a small circle of specialists.
Styles' research       into the textiles, combined with his previous findings on clothes and       fashion, were the basis of the `Threads of Feeling' exhibition, which ran       at the museum from October 2010 to March 2011.
Attracting 19,132 visitors,       it was the best-attended display since the museum's opening.
It was       accompanied by workshops, a lecture series, a CD of four       eighteenth-century songs selected by Styles on textile-related themes, a       re-creation by London Printworks Trust of one of the printed textiles, and       the book written for the exhibition &#8212; Threads of Feeling &#8212; which       sold 5,509 copies from October 2010 to July 2013.
The exhibition was extensively reviewed in specialist print and online       art, antiques, fashion and crafts publications.
Textile practitioners in       particular credited `Threads' as a source of creative inspiration.
One       Twitter user told her followers `[it] will alter your ideas of pattern,       colour and poverty', while a costume designer said it was `important work,       and will add inspiration to my own costume project on Attachment Issues'.
One woman wrote: `I am inspired to finally enrol on a textiles course next       month, and booked the place this morning'; another said that this       `astonishing exhibition .
.
.
inspired me to produce some textile work!'
Interest was such that the annual Stitch and Craft Show's promoters paid       for four `Threads' exhibition cases to be displayed at Olympia from 17 to       20 March 2011, a commercial show that admitted over 15,000 paying       visitors.
The exhibition also inspired at least two poetry anthologies: Foundlings       (2011) and Tokens for the Foundlings (2012).
Visitors from Europe, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the US and other       countries left comments that suggested the exhibition's significance       extended far beyond those interested in history.
Words that recur over the       59 visitors' book pages, in magazine reviews, and in social media posts       are: `moving', `inspiring', `poignant', `thought provoking',       `fascinating', `upsetting', or `sad'.
But many also felt `hopeful', and       some reflected on personal experiences:     I am currently trying to `heal' after being left by mother at four       months.
This was very personal and thought provoking.
or expressed empathy for others:     One of saddest things for me was that not every child could be accepted.
The poverty and desperation that must have existed .
.
.
is what makes       this story sad.
I think most people viewing those tokens instantly grasp how awful (in       most cases) it must have felt to give your baby up.
Or to have been       abandoned.
There was also astonishment that the foundlings' story was not more       widely known.
One Facebooker thought the exhibition `a fascinating view of       something I didn't know about and left me wanting to revisit and find out       more'; and a comment in the visitors' book simply stated: `It should be on       every school curriculum.'
The `Threads' Facebook page increased the exhibition's reach, as did a       permanent online exhibition (www.threadsoffeeling.com),       which received 11,600 visits in the first six months (approximately 6,000       being from the USA and 2,000 from the UK) and was rated one of the five       most innovative cultural websites by the Daily Telegraph in 2011.
The Foundling Museum visitors' book, and American blogs, record that some       even travelled specifically to see the London exhibits in 2010-11.
One       American visitor wrote that it was `well worth a special trip from Boston.
I will use the information for [a] study of American quilts that contain       18th century English fabrics', while a US blogger declared in October 2010       that she had decided to book her flight `because I've yet to see an       exhibit that has my name written all over it to quite the extent that this       one does'.
News therefore spread to the US long before the Colonial Williamsburg       Foundation paid for the entire original exhibition to be displayed for a       year at its DeWitt Wallace Decorative Arts Museum in Virginia, with a       symposium and other special events organised around it.
From its opening       on 25 May 2013 to the end of July 2013, it received 46,619 visitors and       was widely reviewed in the press, specialist textile journals, and on       blogs.
Its reception has been, if anything, even more overwhelming than the       London exhibition.
Again, visitors were moved by the textiles, and       prompted to reflect on the foundlings and their mothers, as well as their       own experiences of adoption or abandonment; as in London, visitors       recorded their interest from a crafts or textiles perspective, combined       with learning about the foundlings' history.
One wrote on the DeWitt       Wallace blog: `Discarded clothing is the paint I use to come to terms with       my childhood and family history .
.
.
My work of transforming ordinary       unwanted cloth into art invites reflection on rejection and renewal.'
A       fashion blogger welcomed the `unprecedented glimpse at some beautiful       period fabrics' alongside a `fascinating, albeit often sad, exploration       into a part of the 18th century that I had not really considered much in       the past'.
Some visitors said that Colonial Williamsburg had mounted its       best exhibition yet, and on 30 May 2013 one wrote on the exhibition's       Facebook page: `I drove 14 hours just to see it in Williamsburg and hear       the talk by John Styles.
It.
Was.
Amazing.'
