     The Embodied and Narrative Practices Framework led to impacts in a range       of situations.
A.
Improved clinical practice in early detection and treatment of         schizophrenia by motivating a revision in the Examination of Anomalous         Self-Experience (EASE) diagnostic tool.
EASE is a questionnaire used in phenomenological interviews.
In its       original format, EASE focused on individual self-experience and hence       underappreciated and underemphasised intersubjective aspects &#8212; such as       difficulties in interpersonal rapport, communication, and emotional and       cognitive reactions to others.
Revisions were made in both content and       method.
Questions were added to focus on interpersonal dimensions, and       both interviewees and interviewers were filmed, making it possible to       analyse interactions between them.
Gallagher and Hutto's research had a direct influence on noticing and       correcting these limitations.
The relevant changes in practice were       facilitated through work of the Marie Curie Disorders and Coherence of the       Embodied Self (DISCOS) Training Network (2007-2011), a consortium of nine       European centres of excellence in neuroscience, philosophy, psychology and       psychiatry.
Twelve psychiatrists and psychologists in this project trained       with the revised EASE and interviewed over eighty patients, leading to the       recognition of thirty hitherto undiagnosed cases of early schizophrenia.
Eight of these patients went on to receive appropriate treatments in       Heidelberg.
Professor Thomas Fuchs, Principal Investigator of DISCOS, acknowledged       that thorough acquaintance with Gallagher and Hutto's framework became       part of the `necessary theoretical background' for those involved in       DISCOS.
Three clinical sub-projects of DISCOS &#8212; one each in Heidelberg and       Copenhagen on the embodied self in schizophrenia, and one in Munich on       somatoform disorders &#8212; took particular advantage of it.
A manual for the       diagnostic tool, including an introduction to the Embodied and Narrative       Practices Framework, is in press.
B.
Influenced the use of alternative therapeutic approaches to         schizophrenia by clinicians in the UK     Clinicians of the Coventry and Warwickshire Early Intervention Team used       Gallagher and Hutto's insights into embodied, enactive and narrative       social cognition as an important theoretical impetus in modifying their       approach to early psychotic illness.
The research helped them to develop       narrative-based strategies that decreased the occurrence of schizophrenic       episodes in some patients.
It enabled them to better understand the       importance of the role of the social environment in the early stages of       psychosis.
This led to modified strategies that successfully enabled these       clinicians to meet both their Department of Health caseload targets       (fifty-five clients per year) and the national target for the duration of       untreated psychosis of three months.
The Early Intervention team focused       on subjects aged 14-35 presenting their first episode of psychotic       illness, typically schizophrenia.
The narrative-based strategies provided       clinicians with an understanding of patients' `delusional realities' and       fostered patients' notions of self-worth and autonomy.
Dr Matthew Broome       (NHS Team) became acquainted with the work of Gallagher and Hutto through       their mutual involvement in the AHRC `Feelings and Emotions in Psychiatric       Illness' Network (2009-10).
C. Shaped the formulation of new methodological guidelines for the         clinical evaluation of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) and monitoring of         treatment     These guidelines, developed at the Bambino Ges&#250; Ospedale Pediatrico, Rome       (one of the largest children's hospitals in Europe), direct clinicians to       focus on early social practices by analysing bodily movement and the       development of gesture.
Researchers and clinicians, using Gallagher and       Hutto's innovative view of intersubjective understanding, began to focus       on early signs of sensorimotor problems and problems with pointing and       gesture in children with autism spectrum disorders, instead of relying on       standard `theory of mind' measures.
From 2010 this enabled the development       of a taxonomy for evaluating different options for specific treatment       strategies.
This was done at the hospital's Child Neuropsychology Unit,       where, on average, sixteen new ASD patients are evaluated per month and       twenty-four ASD patients are treated per month.
This impact was       facilitated by the work of Dr Laura Sparaci (Bambino Ges&#250;), who studied as       a Fulbright Fellow with Gallagher and as a Visiting Researcher at the       University of Hertfordshire with Hutto in 2007-8.
She also participated in       the ESF-funded conference in 2007 and the summer school in 2008.
She       explored the use of the new approach to social cognition in diagnosing ASD       in a 2008 publication.
D. Influenced other treatments of ASD     Dr Belmonte, then in the Faculty of Human Development at Cornell       University and a Senior Research Associate of the Autism Research Centre,       Cambridge, used the Narrative Practice Hypothesis as a theoretical       grounding for a research project that was top-ranked by the US National       Science Foundation in 2008.
This led to new therapies for children with       severe autism to learn to convey information by training in the basic       sequencing of actions.
An initial clinical study in 2008, involving nine       children in a therapeutic environment, yielded positive results &#8212; children       who underwent the training increased the complexity of their communicative       output; larger follow-ups are planned.
