     Since 2008, Floridi has been engaged in several high-impact projects at       the crossroads of philosophy, computer science, information science, and       information and communication technologies.
The impact has occurred       outside academia in two areas: 1) fostering the critical understanding of       ICT-related phenomena among ICT companies; and 2) shaping policy agendas       at European and UN level on the ethical foundation for advanced       information societies.
ICT and Commerce     Sogeti is an international information technology consultancy with global       reach, connecting 20,000 professionals in 15 countries.
The director of       its Research Institute for Analysis of New Technologies (VINT) reports       that Floridi's contribution to the `The App Effect' (2011) and `Big Data'       (2012) projects greatly assisted understandings of how modern information       technologies shape society, culture and business, and that his ideas fed       into the strategies of European and American organisations.
Sogeti further recognises that his work on the philosophy and ethics of       information, in addressing questions of how government and commerce should       strategise their responses to rapid technological change, has `influenced       the influencers', to the extent that members of the International       Executive Council (a community of CEOs and CIOs of 80 companies worldwide)       approach ICT challenges differently.
Specifically, the director pinpoints       the effect of Floridi's work on 1) a group of 350 technology leaders       working in various industries across Belgium and Luxembourg; and 2) the       VINT/New Technologies community in the Netherlands, which consists of 900       technology leaders.
His insights allowed these two groups to consider how       technology changes organisational environments, and they have consequently       been able to place their activities and research on a firm theoretical       basis.
ICT and Public Policy     The following examples outline the influence on public policy of       Floridi's information ethics research.
EU Policy Makers: The Onlife Initiative     In 2011, Floridi was asked by the European Commission's       Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology to       chair a thirteen-member group on `Concept Re-engineering: The Onlife       Experience'.
This group was one element of the EU's Digital Futures       initiative, which sought to anticipate issues and generate ideas for       policy making in the digital realm.
The group formally presented its       report, `The Onlife Manifesto: Being Human in a Hyperconnected Era', in       Brussels on 8 February 2013, and has since taken the Onlife Initiative       discussion to other centres and events in Greece, France, Italy, Canada,       Holland and Portugal.
The report, which discusses how `the deployment of information and       communication technologies (ICTs) and their uptake by society affect       radically the human condition, insofar as it modifies our relationships to       ourselves, to others and to the world' (Sect.
5, Ref.
4, p. 2), is also a       critical element in implementing `Horizon2020'.
According to the European       Commission's website, Horizon2020 is `a Europe 2020 flagship initiative       aimed at securing Europe's global competitiveness.
Running from 2014 to       2020 .
.
.
[this] new programme for research and innovation is part of the       drive to create new growth and jobs in Europe.'
European Centre for International Political Economy     From late 2011, Floridi began informing the work of the European Centre       for International Political Economy (ECIPE), a research institute on       international economy and global trade.
ECIPE's director has said that,       prior to working with Floridi, there had been no consideration given to       connections between political economy and ethics, but that his       organisation had since begun looking at the ethical evaluation of       international trade agreements on Intellectual Property Rights.
In the       context of the Anti-Counterfeit Trade Agreement (ACTA), `the framework and       contributions by Floridi has been accepted by all disciplines, political       groupings and interests, and thereby contributing towards discussion on a       future model for internet and enforcement of intellectual property between       previously irreconcilable parties'.
He also said that, overall, Floridi's       research `is leading to a reorientation in the broader sphere of our       understanding of the impact of ICT on market regulation and assessment of       international agreements.
This will have repercussions for political,       social and economic interventions for a range of ICT-related issues, in       which we face new difficulties or simply unprecedented novelties.'
UNESCO Policy Makers     Working with UNESCO's intergovernmental Information for All Programme       (IFAP), Floridi made a substantial contribution to UNESCO's draft Code of       Ethics for the Information Society (2010) (Ref.
6, p. 2), which was       concerned with ensuring equitable access to information.
The proposed code       was debated at UNESCO's 36th General Conference in 2011, with member       states suggesting that the document be referred to as `guidelines' or a       `set of principles' (Ref.
7, p. 2).
Ultimately, the draft code was used as       the basis of an action plan, adopted by the Executive Board in November       2012, to address ethical issues surrounding the information society (Ref.
8).
