     Music Industry: National     The findings of the 2008 study, which were reported in over 250 global       news sources, provided invaluable quantitative data for stakeholders in       the &#163;3.9 billion British music industry.
They informed an ongoing       intellectual property and copyright debate as the industry attempted to       adjust to unprecedented changes in music recording, sales and purchasing.
The most immediate impact lay in plugging significant information gaps.
UK Music, which supports the music industry through policy and research,       commissioned the work on behalf of its constituent members, who are: the       Performing Rights Society for Music (PRS), Phonographic Performance       Limited (PPL), British Phonographic Industry (BPI), British Academy of       Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA), Music Publishers Association       (MPA), Music Producers Guild (MPG), Music Managers Forum (MMF), Musicians       Union (MU), and the Association of Independent Music (AIM).
These nine       organisations, which are the engines of the UK music industry, engage with       government in crafting policy on intellectual property, copyright       infringement and other important legislative areas for industry growth.
As       each organisation is represented on UK Music's Research Steering Group,       the entire membership was closely involved in ensuring that the work would       serve their interests and needs.
They also discussed and analysed the       data, and its implications for business decisions, policy and education.
The research informed UK Music's position on policy issues and the design       of copyright education resources, in turn informing its members' business       development and licensing teams.
UK Music's policy advisers were       particularly interested in the changing spending patterns identified by       the report, and its senior policy advisor summed up the value of the       findings to the organisation:     The research involved the largest study to date of the attitudes and       practices of a very important age group in the UK, at a very crucial time       in the development of the market &#8212; and it was a very useful as well as an       innovative and illuminating piece of research.
We used it.
That's about as       much as you could ask for in research.
Music Industry: International     The first report was widely read by the major international record       labels, especially Universal Music (the largest music company in the       world), which circulated the research internally.
One example of its influence on an overseas music industry organisation       is the Songwriters Association of Canada (SAC), whose president was       particularly interested in the findings' implications for adapting to       changing listening preferences.
He has stated that he was greatly       influenced by the `tremendous impact' of Hertfordshire's `groundbreaking       work', which inspired the SAC's own region-specific investigation of       piracy.
Funded by the Ontario government and conducted across all of       Canada by Montreal-based research group CROP, the findings were well       publicised in the USA in particular.
`The Hertfordshire Study' is prominently cited in the SAC's `Proposal' &#8212;       its discussion, advocacy and lobbying document &#8212; which, according to the       organisation's website, has attracted `unprecedented interest'.
The       Proposal's summary opens with an uncompromising proposition whose origins       clearly lie in Bahanovic and Collopy's findings:     Rather than continuing to engage in increasingly futile efforts to stop       people from using new technologies to share music, we .
.
.
believe this       massive use of creators' work should be licensed just as live performances       and broadcasting, also initially considered infringement, were ultimately       licensed in the past.
Informing Legislators     Nationally     UK Music incorporated the research findings into its submissions to       government on legislative and policy matters.
In June 2008, for example,       it presented the research at a meeting of the All-Party Parliamentary       Group on Music.
According to UK Music's senior policy advisor, `the       meeting was very enlightening and invigorating' and the new data was `very       valuable to Parliamentarians'.
Indirect impact on government debate and policy making occurred via UK       Music's current and former chief executives, who often provide evidence to       various select committees; and through the organisation's policy       recommendations, which are regularly cited in Commons and Lords debates.
The organisation meets officials, MPs, advisers and ministers to discuss       policy issues affecting the music industry, and uses the Hertfordshire       findings in its numerous responses to consultations on copyright exemption       for private copying.
The 2008 report was quoted in a Department for Business, Enterprise and       Regulatory Reform consultation on peer-to-peer file sharing (2008), and in       the Digital Britain Report (2009), a significant government policy       document that detailed a strategic plan to secure Britain's place in the       vanguard of the global digital economy.
Copyright was a central issue, and       Action 11 read: `The University of Hertfordshire research into attitudes       towards music and copyright by young people showed that only 10% of those       surveyed are currently deterred from file-sharing by a fear of being       caught.
The current approach to civil enforcement is not working as well       as it needs to.'
As the Digital         Economy Act (2010) was one outcome of this report, MEIRG's research       therefore contributed to the government's decision to introduce       legislation to reduce unlawful file-sharing.
The research was further       cited in the Strategic Advisory Board for Intellectual Property Policy's       report `Copycats?
Digital Consumers in the Online Age' (2009), which       examined the implications of digital consumer behaviour and attitudes for       intellectual property policy.
Internationally     The research findings were included in the World Intellectual Property       Organisation's 2010 report on music, film, and software piracy in       developing economies, and a subsequent independent, multi-country report       published in 2011.
The European Parliament also cited the work in       connection with Directive 2004/48/EC (enforcement of Intellectual Property       Rights in member states).
Policy and law makers internationally therefore       used the Hertfordshire research to inform their decisions and       recommendations on intellectual property and copyright infringement.
