     Since October 2009 Worth-Stylianou has drawn on amongst others, Oxford's       rich early modern       library holdings, to translate into English early modern medical texts       which were previously not       available to Anglophones or non-specialist readers.
The birth tales       website makes her translations       freely available to internet users and receives 40-50 hits per week on       average [i].
The website       offers non-specialists as well as Renaissance scholars a glimpse of the       sheer variety and verve       with which birthing tales are related in works which purport, at least, to       be serious medical       treatises.
All the English translations are her own.
In a few cases, an       English translation was       published in the 16th or 17th centuries, but she opted to give a modern       translation in order to make       these 'birthing tales' accessible to a wider audience.
Between 2010 and       2012, the website has       stimulated discussions and requests for further information from a range       of non-academic users,       primarily healthcare practitioners, but also historians of art, and       authors of fiction.
References to       the Birthing Tales website as a major resource are found in other online       resources e.g Siefar and       De Partu [ii].
A Wellcome Trust-funded conference in Oxford in 2012 on `Retelling       Familiar Tales of Birth' [iii],       co-organised by Worth-Stylianou, Professor Helen King (Open University and       Principal Investigator       for the grant) and Dr Janette Allotey (Manchester University), brought       together over 50 researchers       and practitioners from humanities and social sciences disciplines (from       Australia, Canada, India,       Italy, the UK and the US), including 20 healthcare practitioners (notably       midwives from the UK and       Germany) to consider a range of contemporary practices and policies via a       historical prism.
The       conference provided a unique opportunity for a multidisciplinary,       international group of academic       researchers and healthcare practitioners to consider why retelling       familiar tales is so important to       the anticipation, event, and memory of birth.
The conference examined the       use of birthing tales in       media such as drama and online forums; how fiction has historically       addressed new issues,       including donor-conceived children's need for tales of their birth; the       spaces afforded in different       societies (1950s England, present-day India) to the male birthing partner       and the dhoulla; and how       healthcare affects the bonding between mother and child (in relation to       contemporary community       midwifery in Germany, and to historic attitudes to the surgical       termination of ectopic pregnancies).
Midwives are reflective practitioners in the technical sense of       reflection as one of the main learning       methods endorsed by professional, statutory and regulatory bodies (the       National Medical Council       and the Royal College of Midwives) to promote the development of       knowledgeable and competent       practitioners; hence the midwives' attendance at the conference was a       formative part of their       professional development.
They particularly valued the opportunity to       reflect on their current       practice within a comparative historic context: e.g.
why, in popular       imagination (from Antiquity to       the age of the internet), births at eight months paradoxically generate       more fear than those at       seven months; how the language used by different parties (mothers,       midwives, surgeons,       physicians) to describe the female reproductive system can be symptomatic       of conflicting attitudes.
The historical prism afforded by Worth-Stylianou's research, and that of       the various speakers,       allowed the midwives and primary carers to reflect on their experiences       from a fresh and       stimulating angle, so that contemporary debates (e.g.
the role of the       dhoulla as distinct from the       midwife, the use of retelling tales / drama as a therapy for postnatal       stress) could be       recontextualised.
Those midwives in leadership roles (e.g.
university       lecturers in midwifery, senior       community midwives) recognised that the experiences of history &#8212; both in       terms of continuity and       of change &#8212; would provide very useful support and material for reflection       for the teaching of current       practice to their midwifery students.
The dissemination of discussions       around international       historical and contemporary ethical issues was another significant       achievement, which participants       took back to places as diverse as the Department of Ethics in Mangalore,       the community midwives       of the Ruhr area in Germany, or those researching on the identity of       donor-conceived children in       the Department of Political and Social Sciences, Fiesole.
An attendee who was formerly the General Secretary of the Royal College       of Midwives [1]       commented: `The conference was a great success in terms of bringing       together practitioners and       academics from all over the world who might otherwise not have found a       forum to exchange ideas.
This can only serve to advance thinking and argument especially for those       academics whose       background is grounded in practice.'
A Midwifery Lecturer at Manchester       University [2] thought that       `The event facilitated networking opportunities between academics and       practitioners, and has       assisted with the dissemination of the presenters' research to wider       audiences.'
These comments       demonstrate the impact of combining academics and practitioners in the       conference and the       collective learning experience achieved.
The Director, Centre for Ethics,       Yenepoya University,       Mangalore, India [3] said afterwards: `One of the best summer       schools I have attended.
It was truly       Interdisciplinary in nature with experts from different backgrounds       bringing rich experiences that       helped us crystallise our perceptions.
The presentations were of high       quality and made an impact       on the audience.
Coming from a developing country like India, due to a       Wellcome travel grant [...] I       was able to attend and be a part of the rich exchange of Ideas.
I think       this momentum should not       be lost, but rather be the epicentre from where more such workshops should       emerge'.
Following the Oxford conference, Worth-Stylianou was invited to deliver       the keynote lecture in       Manchester in May 2013 at the annual meeting of De Partu (the UK       association for the study of the       history of midwifery).
This lecture was attended by twenty-five midwives,       and a recording of it has       been placed on the De Partu website (August 2013) [iv] for       the benefit of international members of       the group.
As a historian of medicine, Worth-Stylianou encouraged the       midwives to reflect actively       on their current practice, notably on positions adopted to facilitate       obstructed deliveries, and on the       changing definitions (e.g.
by the National Institute for Care and Health       Excellence (NICE)) of `risk'       in childbirth.
Taking the impact of her research forward, she was invited       to speak on `The collective       memory and the appropriation of birthing tales from earlier centuries' at       the cross-cultural and       interdisciplinary Network Conference on Motherhood in post-1968 European       Women's Writing at       IGRS London in October 2013, which was attended by practitioners       (therapists, social and health       workers), and a range of activists, community groups, policy-makers,       charities, and reading       groups, as well as academics.
