     Reach     Plenum was presented on six occasions in Europe and Australia       between 2010 and 2012.
As a site-specific public work, each time it was       projected onto different buildings and surfaces the acoustic of the space       created a unique sound-world.
Festival and event curators confirm that,       over the six performances, the installation was experienced by over       240,000 people; if website visitors are included, this rises to well over       300,000.
Plenum was also discussed by resident artists and       scientists at `round tables' held by each festival, and at a culminating       symposium in London.
Three performances &#8212; at Toru&#324; (Poland), Tallinn (Estonia) and Durham &#8212;       came under the Lux Scientia umbrella, described as `a major collaboration       and international dialogue' between the three light festivals.
Three       artists were each commissioned to create an installation inspired by       discussions with a scientist about the scientific and aesthetic aspects of       light.
The organisers reported that the resulting performances attract ed       a total of 240,000 visitors to the three festivals, and generated over 500       press, online and TV/radio features.
The festivals' combined reach was       further extended by 125,980 website visitors and 2,294 views of the Lux       Scientia micro-site.
The UK curatorial team, the Artichoke Trust, drew       150,000 visitors to the Durham Lumiere alone, significantly more than the       other two light festivals combined.
Durham County Council estimated that       the Lumiere generated &#163;4.3 million for the local economy.
Figures are unavailable for the Skyway '10 festival performance (Poland,       2010), but two other Plenum performances saw audiences of just       over 2,000 each: KickArts Contemporary Arts in Cairns, Australia reported       2,100 visitors over June and July 2012; while the Cambridge Music Festival       (November 2012) attracted an audience of around 2,500 over the two-night       projection onto King's College Chapel.
Again, the work's online presence       extended the audience, with almost 3,300 Youtube views (in aggregate) of       six videos of Plenum posted at various times between early 2011       and July 2013.
Significance     Festival curators have commented on Plenum's significance and its       reception by audiences.
M&#225;rio Caeiro, Toru&#324; curator and the work's       original commissioner, described Plenum as `thought provoking and       exciting', noting in particular that: `The adaptation of sound to visual       concept, as well of the sound and image concept to a building (taken as       peculiar kind of canvas), was of course a way to let art become truly       important .
.
.
for the public to be "there", at the artistic event,       becomes truly a cognitive experience.'
After the King's College performance, part of the 2012 Cambridge Music       Festival, the festival's director said of the installation's musical       aspect that: 	                   Plenum .
.
.
appeals on many levels: from the scientists' awareness of       particles amassing and breaking up, to the modern beauty and clarity of       the narrative inspired by the stories and science of creation.
Popular       culture does not always demand much from its audiences but Plenum had that       broad appeal but also demanded concentration and for people to allow       themselves to be absorbed into the ever-changing sound and projection.
On another occasion, he described the festival as something that combined       `music, education and technology .
.
.
and really what Plenum is       about is trying to bring together at least the music and technology       aspects'.
This performance also created press interest from sources as diverse as Gramophone,       technology publication Cabume, the BBC, and student newspapers Varsity       and The Cambridge Student.
The latter reported that `many King's       students appeared to enjoy the show, despite not seeming to know what it       was about', and included humorous impressions alongside more considered       observations: `Plenum starts as a grid of dots of light that slowly, but       with increasing energy, merge together, decay and vanish in time with       pulsating music and `alien sounds' which made one King's student comment:       "it sounded like the world was ending".'
The installation's Australian curator reacted positively to the work:     The combination of the sounds and the visual made that I felt I was       WITHIN the work; there were no boundaries between sound, visual and       myself, it was an experience of being entirely "present", all "thought"       becoming "non-thought" .
.
.
I found the work utterly inspiring.
Longevity     Plenum's sound-world is now migrating from public art to       concert-hall performance, in which the visuals will be projected inside       the buildings rather than onto exteriors.
In this form, it has been booked       for three separate music events during 2013/14: the Huddersfield       Contemporary Music Festival (November 2013), Frome Festival (July 2014)       and the Kings Place experimental and multimedia group of concerts, London       (January 2014).
This shift demonstrates that Plenum has succeeded       as a customisable piece, capable of presentation in a wide range of       environments and able to reach different audiences.
