     The Tool to Measure Parenting Self-Efficacy has been used by local       government, health care and voluntary organisations to inform strategy and       parenting practice.
TOPSE filled a gap, initially locally, then nationally       and internationally, by providing evidence that parenting support could       make a difference.
Practitioners inform us that parents report       improvements in their confidence and parenting abilities.
TOPSE can be downloaded from a website (www.topse.org.uk).
Between its launch in October 2010 and June 2013, we received 545 website       enquiries: fifty percent were from parenting programme leads,       co-ordinators and practitioners at UK-based organisations, including       county councils, schools, children's centres and voluntary organisations;       the remainder include researchers and overseas practitioners.
International enquiries have led to the tool's translation into eight       languages (Welsh, Japanese, Hebrew, Greek, Rumanian, Danish, Swedish and       Dutch) for use abroad.
National     TOPSE is used across Wales, in four English county councils (Durham,       Buckingham, Newport, Hertfordshire) and by four voluntary organisations,       including Barnardo's.
Hertfordshire's parenting programme providers       (including Families in Focus, running sessions for 500 parents annually,       and Supporting Links) use it to evaluate all county-wide programmes.
In       Hertsmere, TOPSE is used in ten children's centres to evaluate six       programmes each term, amounting to 180 parents annually, and Children's       Centres use TOPSE to demonstrate to their funders the value of parenting       support.
As awareness of our research spreads, we have received numerous requests       to use TOPSE as part of national programme evaluations.
Evidence suggests       that a substantial number of organisations have translated this into their       evaluation policies.
For example, IPSOS MORI conducted a longitudinal evaluation of Flying       Start for the Welsh government (2011), using TOPSE as an outcome measure.
As part of a baseline survey, TOPSE was completed by 1,694 parents of       children aged 0-2 years.
TOPSE and TOPSE for parents with learning       disabilities are also used by Welsh co-ordinators to evaluate Incredible       Years and Family Links Nurturing programmes.
The number of programmes in       Wales using TOPSE is growing: in Pontypool, ten groups of six to twelve       parents each term, and in Newport twenty-three groups of ten parents each,       have used TOPSE to evaluate programme outcomes.
In Leeds the tool has previously been used to evaluate twenty-five       programmes (250 parents); and in Buckinghamshire 63 parenting groups (512       parents) have completed TOPSE evaluations, providing evidence that       Incredible Years had a greater impact on parent-child relationships than       other programmes.
County Durham, which has used TOPSE since 2009, found in       2012 that 95% of parents reported an improvement in self-efficacy.
The       county wrote the tool into its Quality Standards and Good Practice       Guidance, and uses it to identify which aspects of child and family       support to address.
Practitioner feedback consistently reports increased self-efficacy scores       after parenting programmes, in turn providing evidence that parents       benefit from the programmes, and assisting funding decisions.
The       following selected comments indicate how TOPSE allows facilitators to       determine whether their programmes benefit parents:     `TOPSE shows how parents have changed during the time of the programme,       we have found the largest shift to a higher score is play and enjoyment,       discipline and boundaries and learning and knowledge.'
(Newport City       Council)     `95% of parents who completed TOPSE at evidence based Parenting       Programmes .
.
.
felt more confident to address and deal with the issues       they face as parents.'
(County Durham)     `Unlike many other evaluation tools, it has been found that the results       from TOPSE's self-reporting measures are good indicators of actual       parental behaviour.'
(`Evaluation of Flying Start', report commissioned by       the Welsh government).
International     Organisations, practitioners and researchers in Australia, Canada, USA,       Denmark, Sweden, Israel, Japan, Greece, the Netherlands, Romania, Hungary       and Germany have implemented TOPSE as part of their strategies to       demonstrate improvements in parenting.
In Stockholm, the tool was used to       evaluate a universal parenting programme involving 1,000 parents of       children aged 3-13, with plans for further evaluation in a deprived area.
In Israel TOPSE was adapted for use with parents of children with ADHD,       and in the Netherlands the Department of Rehabilitation used TOPSE in a       264-parent study.
Our collaborative study with Kanazawa Medical University, Japan led the       mayor of Uchinada to fund his region's parenting programmes for a further       year, allowing local families to benefit beyond our research period.
Japan       is concerned about child abuse in the context of parenting stress and       isolation, and the Sasakawa Foundation viewed the project as being of       civic and public health value; accordingly, it provided funding to       Professor Kendall for dissemination into policy and practice in Tokyo.
The       Foundation's support for this phase, completed in February 2012,       facilitated discussions with public health nurses in Tokyo and Uchinada       that confirmed our qualitative research: Japanese parents were less likely       to openly discuss parenting stress than English parents, but support       lowered their parenting stress scores and increased their confidence.
