     As a result of the research, some cathedrals and churches are now       understanding better and       developing more fully the ministry of their prayer boards.
The impact of       this research has been       in three specific outcomes:            The Church of England has developed a new web-based ministry to make         opportunity         for prayer requests more widely accessible, which has been informed by         the results of         the research to date.
New research projects have been identified in dialogue with Bangor         cathedral.
The diocese of Southwark has incorporated the study of prayer requests         into a wider         research project relating to church growth.
Outcome 1: The Church of England's online "Pray One for Me'       website was set up in close       conversation with ap Si&#244;n who was invited to monitor the use of this       facility.
Results indicated       that the online prayer facility was being used in a very different way       from those prayers posted       in contexts that were not online, with greater content emphases on prayers       for self,       relationships, affective growth and primary control.
Subsequent to this,       the Church of England       saw value in extending what was initially a Lent initiative to a permanent       all-year-round facility       `Pray One for Me', with additional interactive features, developed from a       thematic response to       the research results.
This website was launched in February 2012 (reference         d).
Currently,       around 2,000 prayers have been collected by ap Si&#244;n from the new website       and a series of       analyses are taking place in order to explore the results of this       intervention.
The results of the       research are shared directly with the Church of England's Senior       Communications Officer, who       is responsible for the Church of England's online prayer provision, and       with the Bishop of       Manchester, who is one of the bishops involved in this initiative (reference         a).
Outcome 2: ap Si&#244;n also works directly with a number of Cathedrals       including Bangor,       Lichfield, and Southwark to help them with the development of their       ministry through prayer       boards.
This is theresult of research that has explored the accessing of       spiritual support       through prayer by means of the prayer boards and prayer trees provided by       the Church of       England within churches, cathedrals and hospitals.
This supports the       Anglican church in the       UK in its mission among those who do not necessarily engage with church in       a traditional way       but nonetheless wish to engage with the `sacred space' that cathedrals and       churches provide.
The Anglican church has used the research to better support those who may       only attend       church for the occasional offices or use the space to pray This has led to       reflection at Bangor       Catherdral, for example, on the prayer board area and associated       devotional areas in the       Cathedral.
Research-led physical modifications have been initiated and       will be the subject of       further research.
For example, the positioning of the prayer board in       relation to other       devotional foci (such as a statue of Mary, votive candles, pebble pool),       change to the size of       the prayer board and paper sizes.
This is testing whether any of these       factors play a role in the       frequency of prayer board use and also the type of use in terms of prayer       content.
Ethnographic research methods are now (in 2013) being employed at Bangor       Cathedral to       explore further the dynamics of personal devotional activity, and this has       been stimulated by       the prayer card research.
It was recognised that prayer cards are only one       type of personal       devotional activity available to those visiting the Cathedral, and that       there are also non-written       forms of personal devotional activity as seen in the popular use of       statues/ icons and votive       candles, for example.
Through using non-participant observation, all these       aspects of personal       devotional activity are being explored in the Lady Chapel of Bangor       Cathedral, where it is       possible to observe behaviour relating to both written prayer requests and       other types of       personal devotional activity.
The aim of this is to understand the       devotional dynamics within       this particular area of the Cathedral, and to understand more fully how       different individuals are       using the area.
A further objective that is being explored in dialogue       with the results of the       research is how to create an appropriate liturgy in which this kind of       devotional activity may be       incorporated.
(reference b).
Outcome 3: Another example of the impact of this particular prayer       research project is that the       apSAFIP is being employed as a component of larger research projects that       have been       commissioned by the Church, such as the `Signs of Growth' project       commissioned by the       Diocese of Southwark.
The `Signs of Growth' project is a large-scale       quantitative, survey-based       project led by researchers at the University of Warwick at the request of       the Diocese of       Southwark.
The objective of the `Signs of Growth' project is to understand       the reasons why       numbers attending churches in the Southwark Diocese are increasing (which       is against the       trend of decreasing church attendance in most other dioceses in the Church       of England).
On       the basis of the track record of the intercessory prayer research, ap Sion       has been given       access to the prayer requests left in Southwark Cathedral and is working       with the Sub-dean       and Canon Pastor at the Cathedral in relation to this aspect of the `Signs       of Growth' project       (February 2013-to date) (reference c).
