     This research has assisted in mitigating harm to players.
It has further       influenced professional standards and game legislation.
Two specific       examples of impact are presented here to illuminate this case study,       demonstrating how impact has arisen from the body of research outlined       above.
Firstly, a change in Rugby League bylaws, which occurred after a case was       made by the Chairman of The RLMA to The Rugby Football League which       occurred as a direct result of research undertaken by Gissane and       colleagues and, secondly, raising the debate around concussion in sport       globally, through research into the rapid assessment of concussion using       the King-Devick test.
The RLMA was successful in getting a bylaw regarding       entering the field of play.
Today, that bylaw is still part of RFL Medical       Standards.
E.9 Hot Weather Code     When both clubs medical staff agree that the heat and/or humidity is         such that players require additional water they should approach the         Match Commissioner (or Referee if there is no Match Commissioner) to         request one or both of the special measures below.
(Where there is only         one Doctor present he/she is entitled to make the request on his/her         own).
The Match Commissioner shall grant this request and shall ensure         that the Referee, home Club secretary and broadcast partner are aware of         his decision.
The positioning of water containers around the ground (ensuring           that there is no danger to players or spectators) to enable players to           help themselves.
A two minute break at an appropriate natural pause in the game           approximately half way through the first and second halves to allow           players to take on extra water.
From: RFL Medical Standards 2012 Section E page 59.
When the research1,2,3 was originally conducted, it was not       only the Super League and the professional ranks that needed to be       considered.
For the first time, many amateur players played in the summer.
The evidence and the consequent bylaw were important to those players       also.
Gissane was awarded the Esso prize for research by the Occupational       Medicine Society in 2004, in recognition of research and its impact.
Concussion as a topic is currently being debated in public.
As part of       that debate, the research has been discussed extensively in online forums,       and has featured in the mainstream press, e.g.
the `New York Times'.
The       research that has been conducted by Gissane and his fellow researchers has       featured prominently in this discussion4,5,6.
The discussion in       the media has included radio shows, television news shows and also       newspaper reports, raising awareness and stimulating debate amongst a wide       audience around this important issue.
The underpinning research focuses on the fact that anyone who       participates in sport risks being concussed.
At the grassroots levels of       any sport resources and funding are often not available for some of the       more sophisticated equipment available to professional sports persons.
The       importance of this issue was presented in an article in the journal Neurosurgery       (Duenas et al.
2013), where Gissane's work was directly cited and       highlighted.
Yet, the risk is still present and coaching and support staff       must be educated in recognising and assessing the injury.
This has led to       the interest in the research in the media.
A simple test is employed,       which can be used at several sporting levels for minimal costs.
It has       been able to identify un-witnessed concussion which has led to greater       understanding of the incidence of concussion in sport.
