     The published findings from the Pollock et al.
(2010) paper1,       described in section 2, have       highlighted the prevalence of the Triad in female athletes and triggered a       new approach to the       medical care of British female distance runners, prioritising prompt       identification and treatment of       the Triad.
Dr Noel Pollock &#8212; a British Athletics Doctor (and first author       of the paper) commented:       `This study has informed British Athletics medical policy, investigations,       and therapy strategy and,       amongst other things, raised the profile of the issue for coaches'.
Dr       Pollock has provided a British       Athletics medical policy document citing this work.
This work has received global attention, featuring in a number of text       books and websites, and       summarised by other agencies.
The work is cited in a professional       development article in the South       African Journal of Family Practice (Schwellnus et al.
2011) and summarised       on the Female Athlete       Triad Coalition (an international consortium affiliated to the American       College of Sports Medicine)       website: www.femaleathletetriad.org       &#8212; `To this end, it is notably imperative that female endurance         athletes complete a DXA amongst their pre-participation screening.
Furthermore, future research       should investigate this association between high training volume,       potential menstrual dysfunction,       and reductions in lumbar BMD in larger populations of female endurance       athletes.
Based on these         findings, it is indirectly suggested that a negative energy balance is a         contributing factor to bone         loss in these athletes.'
Together, these references highlight the       strong likelihood that this work has       influenced practice internationally.
At SMUC, a post-doctoral research fellow with expertise in the promotion       of bone health has been       recruited in order to further this research and to seek further research       funding to expand research       into optimising the bone health of elite athletes.
The iron deficiency case study2 was reviewed in detail in the       popular press in a Runner's World       blog, and has had over 5000 views (currently 100 / week): http://www.runnersworld.com/nutrition-runners/iron-levels-olympic-miler.
The Runners World Website attracts 3.8 million views per week.
Furthermore, Gill Horgan (a co-author), presented the case study to the       Sports Dietitians UK group,       of which she is a member, potentially influencing practice amongst Sports       Dietitians.
St Mary's is uniquely placed in British distance running circles to       influence, via its research, current       and developing athletes, owing to the quality and quantity of distance       runners training locally.
St       Mary's has hosted a number of high profile distance runners in the London       Marathon, England       Athletics and British Athletics supported Endurance Performance and       Coaching Centre (EPACC).
The EPACC has grown from 2 elite runners in 2003 (including Mo Farah) to       some 140 athletes in       2013, and is host to several training camps, workshops, conferences and       seminars for the distance       running community; for example, the annual London Marathon Young Athlete       Camp, the Annual       England Athletics seminar series and the British Milers Club Endurance       Conference 2013.
This       profile provides considerable scope for research impact through local and       national distance running       networks.
Beyond St Mary's, both themes feature in education programmes delivered       to Sport and Exercise       Medicine doctors at Queen Mary University of London and University College       London through       guest lectures by Dr Pedlar and co-authors, annually since 2010.
Furthermore, Dr Pedlar is a       guest lecturer on the British Association of Sport and Exercise Medicine       (BASEM) Foundation       Course using both of the above research examples as a means of educating       the trainee sports       doctor delegates.
Dr Pedlar has recently spoken to practitioners about his       research at the BASEM       Annual Conference 2012, Marathon Medicine 2012, The Beachy Head Marathon       Symposium 2011,       The European Athletics Endurance Conference 2013, and the Running 2012       professional       conference.
