     The research described above has been used to inform national and       international political, professional and public debate about the risks of       MDMA use.
It has provided key evidence influencing UK and US governmental       debate about the drug's legalisation and allowed medical professionals and       specialist information websites to provide better-evidenced and more       accurate advice to groups, including pregnant women and recreational drug       users.
Contributions to media discourse have supported both the delivery       of more accurate media coverage of issues relating to the effects of the       drug and increased public awareness of those issues.
Informing US policy makers, health professionals, and public about the         potential harmful effects of MDMA.
Parrott and Turner's publications from 1998 through to 2004 feature on       the US government's National Institute of Health, National Institute         on Drug Abuse (NIDA) website.
This site provides information       resources that are authoritative, respected and used by a wide range of US       policy makers, health professionals, drug users and members of the US       public as core information on the potential harmful effects of drugs on       adult functioning.
Four UEL-authored papers, including [1], are cited on       the website as key pieces of research evidence for the harmful effects of       MDMA [a].
Informing UK government debate about the legal classification of MDMA.
In the UK the same work, outlining the potential neurological and       psychological risks of MDMA use, has informed government debate and       decisions relating to the legal classification of MDMA, and specifically       to its status as a Class A versus Class B drug.
In 2008, Parrott, Turner,       Soar, and Milani made invited contributions to the 2009 Home Office Advisory         Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) review of MDMA, which cites       [b].
Parrott was one of only eight expert witnesses called to give oral       evidence; Turner, Soar and Milani also provided written evidence on the       negative effects of the drug.
Papers published by the UEL group &#8212;       including [1] and [3] &#8212; are referenced frequently in the report [b].
Whilst the ACMD report recommended that MDMA be re-classified to Class B,       Home Office Ministers in fact rejected this recommendation, a decision       informed in part by the work of the UEL team, which evidences the       long-term negative effects of MDMA on memory and mood.
Engaging audiences with drug legalisation debates: contributions to         media discourse     Parrott's subsequent extensive engagement in public debate with the Chair       of ACMD (David Nutt) about the use of evidence, and conclusions of the       ACMD report [c], ensured that the research not only influenced policy, but       also enhanced public awareness and understanding of some of the most       important issues relating to the use of the drug.
In September 2012,       Parrott took part in Channel 4 television's "Drugs Live" programme, in       which he debated the potential negative effects of MDMA on adults with       David Nutt and Val Curran.
Parrott made a significant contribution to the       programme in proposing the arguments for the potential `side-effects' of       MDMA if used in therapy.
In so doing, he referred to studies undertaken at       UEL (both by him whilst he was here and, subsequently, by the rest of the       team) that have reported long-term negative effects on memory and mood.
Moore was also an invited member of the expert audience for that       programme, which reached a peak audience of more than 2 million viewers       [d].
A You Tube link to the programme had received in excess of 5,000       views in July 2013.
The reach of these impacts on UK public awareness of, and engagement       with, issues pertaining to the drug legalisation debate was extended by       subsequent contributions to international public and media discourses on       that topic, with Parrott, Turner and Moore all contributing to media       debates engaging both UK and overseas audiences.
On 28 September 2012, for       example, Moore contributed to a debate with Val Curran about whether the       Drugs Live programme had given a sufficiently clear message about the       negative effects of MDMA generally and about the importance, more       specifically, of ensuring that young women recognise the danger that its       use might pose to unborn babies dangers before they are aware of their       pregnancy.
The debate was broadcast on the Voice of Russia UK, the Russian       government's international radio broadcasting service.
A You Tube link to       the programme had been accessed more than 600 times by July 2013 [e].
Raising awareness among international public audiences about the         dangers of MDMA use in early pregnancy.
Since their publication in 2012, findings from the DAISY study &#8212; the       first in the world to report the effects of MDMA on motor and cognitive       functioning in human infants &#8212; have likewise been widely covered by       popular and news media [f].
They were, moreover, also reported in detail       on leading pregnancy information websites in the UK and USA [e.g.
g].
Prior to the publication of the research findings, such sites gave only       very generic advice against illicit drug use during pregnancy, and had no       firm evidence of the negative effects of MDMA specifically on the       long-term development of babies.
One of the most popular UK pregnancy       websites, BabyCentre UK, has since updated their drug advice pages to make       reference to the DAISY study's findings about the effects of MDMA on       infant motor function [g].
The site, which is visited millions of times       each month by pregnant women or those planning pregnancies, refers       specifically to a paper from the study [5].
Improving understanding among medical and health professionals     As well as being used to inform general public audiences, the DAISY       findings were widely reported and discussed on medical websites in the UK       and US.
Between 28 February and 2 March 2012, that coverage included       discussion of the results published in [5] on US News' HealthDay       site, MedicineNet.com, and DrugRehab.us; the article also received       a particularly high number of views on Medical News Today, where       it was listed as the `editor's choice' [h].
Publications by UEL researchers have led to invitations for them to share       their research findings and the expert knowledge accruing from their work       with a wide range of medical health professionals, through contributions       to live events.
Parrott's expertise remains much in demand among medical       professional groups, and he continues to draw on evidence gathered during       his time at UEL in meeting that demand.
Throughout the period of the DAISY       project &#8212; which ran up to and through 2008 &#8212; Moore accepted numerous       invitations to present lectures and workshops on the study for audiences       of paediatricians and health professionals, including at the British       Association for Community Child Health.
These led to an invitation to       provide a chapter (published in 2011) on the potential pre-natal effects       of MDMA for a book in the prestigious Clinics in Developmental Medicine       series (McKeith) [i].
This provided access to data on the potential       harmful effects of MDMA, including preliminary data from the Daisy study,       for professionals from other disciplines, particularly including       paediatricians, neurologists and general practitioners,     Raising awareness among drug users of the potential harmful effects of         MDMA     The UEL team's work on MDMA has featured regularly, not just on TV news       (e.g.
ITV News, Channel 4 News and the BBC's World Service) and in the       national press, but on independent websites set up to inform drug users       [j].
It has also been presented at the Club Health Conference in Ibiza       (2008) and Prague (2011), where the research results were used to inform a       non-academic audience of policy-makers, law enforcement agencies, a wide       range of health professionals, nightclub owners and clubbers.
Work has       also been presented at the National Drug Treatment Conference to policy       makers, clinicians and service users.
