     Exercise (Djibouti) 2012 premiered in a solo installation hosted by       Modern Art Oxford at the Old Power Station in Oxford (6-29 July 2012)[i]       as part of the London 2012 Festival and Turning Point South East's       RELAY programme[ii][1] The London 2012 Festival was the       climax of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad and the biggest festival the       UK has ever seen.
The work was also selected for inclusion in South London       Gallery's group exhibition Pursuit of Perfection: The Politics of         Sport (26 July-14 September 2012)[iii].
This       presentation of Exercise (Djibouti) 2012 formed part of SLG Local,       a new long-term initiative supported by Southwark Council, Bloomberg and       the Big Lottery Fund that brings newly commissioned and existing works to       a broad range of social settings in the vicinity of South London Gallery.
Both showings of Exercise (Djibouti) 2012 were timed to coincide       with the presence of the Olympic torch locally, and the various opening       and closing ceremonies of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Engaging new audiences with contemporary art       The London 2012 Cultural Olympiad and London 2012 Festival placed great       emphasis on engaging new audiences [iv].
The Gerrard       exhibitions and related community education and outreach programmes in       Oxford and London contributed audiences of 30,000 people across a diverse       range of communities[v].
Reviews in the broadcast, print       and online media, such as BBC World Service's The Strand (15 July       2012), engaged thousands of additional listeners and readers.
The national evaluation of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad and London       2012 Festival[iv] found that free tickets enabled new       audiences to attend events, especially young people, and that audiences       were more generous with their time and more willing to experiment with       unfamiliar art if they were not paying for attendance.
Taking creative and       cultural events out of traditional venues also improved access for       non-traditional audiences.
In Oxford, the inclusion of Exercise         (Djibouti) 2012 in the London 2012 Festival programme, free entrance       and the use of a disused industrial building as a venue attracted       audiences who may not normally visit an art gallery or take part in       cultural activities.
Most visitors to the Oxford installation were local       to the Oxford area or came from London and on average they spent over 30       minutes in the installation.
Visitors commented `This is, by far, the       coolest thing I've seen in Oxford.'
and `John Gerrard installation in a       disused power station?
Yes please.'
The Project Manager for Learning and       Partnerships at Modern Art Oxford[2] said `Perhaps the       most important legacy of the Legacy Fellowship [...] is the numerous       relationships developed with individuals from Oxford's communities... [It]       has broken down some of the perceived barriers to accessing culture and       sport and will encourage a wider audience to attend Modern Art Oxford's       programme of exhibitions and events.'
The inclusion of Gerrard's work in South London Gallery's satellite venue       of Southwark Old Town Hall attracted significant new audiences to the work       in another region and social setting[3].
One visitor       commented `Some great work at South London Gallery's new show at Southwark       Old Town Hall.
John Gerrard and Lucy Gunning particularly excellent.'
Increasing appreciation and understanding of contemporary art       By fully embracing the ethos of the London 2012 Games, the Legacy       Fellowship's contribution to the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad and the       London 2012 Festival helped the organisers to meet their legacy objectives[iv][4][5].
A poll showed that nine out of every ten people who attended the London       2012 Festival said it was `a positive addition' to the London 2012 Games.
Audiences and participants said their involvement helped to create a sense       of `once-in-a-lifetime' excitement, which tuned in with the Games       themselves.
A third of the people surveyed said they would take part in       future arts, culture and entertainment events as a result.
Modern Art Oxford surveyed visitors to the installation in Oxford[1].
Of the 120 visitors who were surveyed, 94% rated the experience as       excellent or good.
Comments included `Amazing work.
Impressive that it's       running live' and `Wish I had longer to spend more time!
Definitely coming       back!
Thank you!'.
The positive comments on the presentation in Oxford       were reinforced by the online reviews, such as `As one wanders through, up       and around the imposing Old Power Station, a building that sits still, yet       wound like a coil, poised ready for the action that unfolds in the       enormous void of an exhibition space within it, you are dwarfed by the       most enormous, jaw-dropping screen that dominates its stage.
This is mind       blowing, on every level.'
(Oxford Mail[vi].)
The       Southwark exhibition was also positively received in the media and       audience members had a `mesmerising' (@whattheysaw) and `hyponotic'       (@shonaghm) experience watching the film[3].
It was       given 4/5 stars in the Independent (19 August 2012)[vii] and       the Evening Standard (27 July 2012), was Exhibition of the Week in Time       Out (14 August 2012) and was in the Guardian's top 5 London art       exhibitions that summer (27 July 2012).
Stimulating debate and changing perceptions       A number of talks and discussions allowed audiences to meet the artist and       gain further insights into his work.
This was instrumental in encouraging       audiences to delve deeper into the issues and changing perceptions of       contemporary art through interpretation methods that made it accessible to       a non-specialist audience.
One participant said `Thrilled to meet John       Gerrard today and see his new installation.
A fascinating and phenomenal       feat on every level!
Go see it!'
(@SarahFMayhew)     Gerrard's work encouraged debate amongst audience members, drawing       parallels between politics, competitive sport and military warfare.
This       brought some uncomfortable truths back into audience minds at a time of       national euphoria about the London 2012 Games: `Exercise (Djibouti)         2012 may just be the only part of the London 2012 Festival with an       element of critique for a sporting festival which is beginning to suffer       with a reputation for corporatism.
Thanks to this brave piece in Oxford,       parallels can be drawn between the spectacle of war and the spectacle of       the Games' Culture24 (12 July 2012)[viii]; `Sitting in       [Southwark Old Town Hall], you sense a series of uneasy connections:       between politics and distance, power and death, Match of the Day       and The World at War' Independent on Sunday (19 August 2012)[vii];       `[This] spectacle fusing military and sporting prowess is as       troubling as it is breathtaking' Guardian (7 July 2012); `It poses a very       fresh, new perspective on the London 2012 Olympic Games, and caused me to       consider the political element of Olympic level power struggles, and       engage in what the Olympics actually mean...' (Oxford Mail[vi]).
Inspiring creativity and creating legacy for future generations     Exercise (Djibouti) 2012 created opportunities for young people and     community members of all ages to become active participants in creative     programmes, learning and sharing new creative skills[2].
This was another key contribution to the aims of the London 2012 Cultural     Olympiad and London 2012 Festival[4].
Artists Search Party     and Tamarin Norwood led a series of workshop sessions in primary schools,     involving over 100 8-9 year olds in a range of activities drawing on the     notion of a team in sport.
The children took part in story-telling,     drama-based exercises and craft- based making, and their perspectives on     Oxford served to inform Search Party versus Oxford, a participatory     table tennis performance marathon in Oxford city centre, which attracted     almost 1,500 people.
Tamarin Norwood's residency at Modern Art Oxford, which     responded to Exercise (Djibouti) 2012, included an exhibition,     performance, open studio and public talk, attracting more than 4,000 people.
Evil Twin Artworks introduced a group of young people at risk of social     exclusion to games design via a dedicated short course.
The programme     culminated in a four-day games camp for more than 50 participants called the     Oxford Digital Olympiad[ix].
`The students from Northfield Residential School had never visited a       contemporary art gallery before and did not know that Modern Art Oxford       was situated in their home town.
They now feel confident in visiting the       gallery on their own, as demonstrated through one student taking their       friends there at the weekend.
The students meeting with the artist John       Gerrard and having a private talk made them feel special and enabled them       to fully understand the complexities of the artwork.'
(Support worker from       school involved in the Oxford Digital Olympiad.)
Building mutually beneficial and synergistic relationships with         non-academic partners       A number of unique collaborations and new working practices supported by       the Legacy Fellowship have had a lasting impact on the creative       organisations involved and the way they work.
The presentation of Exercise         (Djibouti) 2012 in the Old Power Station in Oxford was devised in       discussion with the curatorial team at Modern Art Oxford, one of Britain's       leading venues for the presentation of modern and contemporary art, and it       remains one of the most ambitious off-site projects in the organisation's       history.
'For Modern Art Oxford the key benefits included the testing of       new ways of (i) working collaboratively with partners in the higher       education sector (ii) delivering a major research-driven artistic       commission beyond the walls of the gallery and (iii) attracting and       informing audiences via a bespoke community education and outreach       programme, which involved other practitioners and further strengthened       links between Modern Art Oxford, public and professional audiences.
'[1]     The relationship with Audiomotion Studios was also important.
Audiomotion       Studios is Europe's leading performance capture service provider,       specialising in the provision of motion capture services to the game       development, film and television industries.
Not only were Audiomotion       Studios involved in the production of Exercise (Djibouti) 2012,       they also provided financial support for the presentations in Oxford and       London[v].
For them, working on a piece of contemporary       art allowed the company to experiment away from their core business area.
The mutually beneficial partnership between the University of Oxford,       Modern Art Oxford and Audiomotion Studios was a major factor in bringing       Gerrard's research to a wide audience and on a grand scale.
