     The principal impact of the research has been on proposals developed by       the Institute of Chartered       Accountants of Scotland on FoA in 2010.
The loss of confidence in       both corporate reporting and       assurance led ICAS to establish an expert working party to develop       proposals for a revised model       of external assurance.
Fraser was the only academic on the working party       which consisted of       around 14 members representing senior representatives of the auditing       profession, as well as       senior preparers and users of accounting information.
The deliberations of       the working party were       observed by regulators from the Financial Services Agency (FSA) and the       Financial Reporting       Council (FRC).
A number of the FoA recommendations `have been       taken forward, either by bodies       such as the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), or have been backed by       respected bodies such as       the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee' (BaR, p1).
The research served as a starting point for the deliberations of the       working party and the FoA       report referred explicitly to it; see ICAS (2010) p11, p30.
The working       party's proposals were       published at the end of 2010 and reflect the impact of the research in       several identifiable respects.
The following pairs of paragraphs describe briefly (a) several of the key       research findings followed       by (b) the corresponding recommendations in FoA.
1(a) Research finding users believed that assurance on the `front       end' of the annual report [i.e.
the       annual report other than the financial reports themselves] was desirable.
1(b) Future of Assurance proposal The external audit and assurance       report would include (inter       alia) `an opinion that the annual report (excluding the financial       statements) is balanced and       reasonable' (p.28).
2(a) Research finding Any obstacles envisaged by auditors to       providing assurance on the `front-end'       of the financial report were not technical but factors such as the       appropriateness of the       existing (i) `true and fair' opinion and (ii) possible litigation       difficulties.
2(b) Future of Assurance proposal (i) As noted above the form of       assurance envisaged for the       `front-end' is couched in terms of `balance and reasonableness' rather       than `truth and fairness'       (p.28).
(ii) It is recommended that the `liability regime for directors       and external auditors is carefully       examined.
To achieve our vision, there should be safe harbours for       directors and a proportionate       liability regime for external auditors' (p.28).
3(a) Research finding Audit reports might incorporate more       entity-specific information and to better       reflect the judgements made by auditors.
3(b) Future of Assurance proposal FoA did not implement this       research finding believing that the       audit committee rather than the audit report was the most appropriate       locus for this kind of       information.
The research findings, however, are reflected in the FoA       proposal that the audit       committee report should explain how the committee has satisfied itself       that `the risk and control       processes are operating satisfactorily' (p.22) and `the appropriateness of       management's significant       judgements' (p.22).
These proposals are linked to the audit report by the       further proposal that the       audit report confirms that the `audit committee report contains an       appropriate reflection of the key       issues discussed between the audit committee and the external auditor'       (p28)     4 (a) Research finding There is scope to enhance auditor-investor       dialogue.
4 (b) Future of Assurance proposal While it was considered that       there were too many obstacles to       direct auditor-investor dialogue, it was recommended as an alternative       that investors should       challenge the audit committee and the Board where they have any concerns       relating to the       independence or objectivity of the external auditor'(p.29) and `notify the       company of any concerns       on the appointment of the external auditor' (p.29)     The critical impact of the research on FoA is summarised by the       ICAS Executive Director of       Technical Policy and Services as follows: `In summary, the research         document was a very useful         foundation for the considerations of the Working Party, and Ian's own         input to the WP's         discussions in highlighting aspects of the research and contributing to         the evolution of the WP's         thinking was really helpful.
Through the broad and very senior         membership of the WP and their         engagement or relationships with other policy bodies, you can see that         the research and the         deliberations of the group have been influential in the development of         policy at those bodies &#8212;         thinking in particular of the FRC and its Effective Company Stewardship         paper of January         2011.The FoA report has been used extensively by ICAS &#8212; as a basis for         discussions with the         European Commission, with the UK Government (BIS), at the Federation des         Experts-Comptables         Europeens, and with the Global Accounting Alliance.
It has also informed         and shaped the         Institute's policy on how to evolve and develop the audit to be of         greater use to the users of         corporate reports, and in particular in forming the Institute's policy         in relation to the European         Commission's proposed legislation which was issued in November 2011'.
As noted above, FoA has been followed in 2013 by BaR.
BaR       is grounded firmly in FoA and       `suggests some of the processes that the auditor should follow when       delivering an opinion on the       narrative information' (p3).
BaR cites (p.5) the two primary       research outputs, Fraser et al.
(2010)       and Fraser and Pierpoint (2011) in support of its underlying arguments,       ICAS now intends to       expose BaR to more extensive exposure with plans to hold workshops       in Edinburgh and London       during the latter part of 2013.
Subsidiary impacts (1) Articles in the professional and business       press by the researchers       themselves.
(Fraser and Henry, 2009; Fraser (2010a, 2010b, 2011b).and by       independent       commentators on it (Jubb 2010; Sanderson 2010).
One example of endorsement       by the business       community is that of Jubb, head of Corporate Governance and Stewardship at       Standard Life:       `Capital markets are placing more reliance on narrative reporting and       investors need meaningful       assurance.
Recent research on user views, led by Professor Ian Fraser of       Stirling University, with       support from ICAS, reinforces this point convincingly' (2010, p.1).
This       statement appeared on the       front page of Accountancy Age, a weekly publication available       freely to all members of the main       UK professional accountancy bodies.
(2) Presentation of the findings in       July 2010 at a breakfast       event in the city of London hosted jointly by Grant Thornton PLC and ICAS       and attended by senior       users and auditors and representatives of regulatory and professional       bodies including the FSA,       the FRC, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales       (ICAEW) and HM Treasury.
This event was covered by publications including the Financial Times and       Accountancy Age.
It was       chaired by the president of ICAS and presenters included the previous       chair of the House of       Commons Treasury Committee, Lord John McFall.
(3) An international       presentation of the findings       at the University of Luxembourg in September 2010 to representatives of       the international financial       community.
(4) Fraser was invited to speak on the Future of Assurance at       the 2010 Congress of       the International Association for Accounting Education and Research       (IAAER) in Singapore in       November 2010.
(5) Two presentations to the Audit and Assurance Committee       of ICAS.
(6)       Hermes Equity Ownership Services Ltd referred to the research in their       consultation response to       the Treasury's discussion paper on Audit Quality in May 2010.
