     The Scottish Government commissioned NPPG8 research led directly into the       revision of the national retail planning policy (revised retail and town       centre planning policy SPP8).
In this section we concentrate on its       impacts since 2008.
The introduction of this policy produced sustained impact on retail       development.
The town centre first policy has directed retail development       to town centres and sought to enhance and support town centre planning and       activities.
Outcomes of this are seen in the renewed interest in town       centre stores in some sectors (e.g.
Food) and the increasing and enhanced       focus on town centres generally in public, political and policy debate.
Town centres have received great coverage in recent years (e.g.
the       British Retail Consortium 21st Century High Street Project, the       Portas Review on High Streets in 2011 and the Grimsey Review in 2013).
In       Scotland concern generated by the situation facing town centres led to       legislation in 2007 (implemented from 2008) to deliver Business       Improvement Districts, especially in town centres (identified as a policy       direction in our 1998 report for the Scottish Office), and the development       of a learning network on town centres and local high streets (2009-2011       and now superseded by Scotland's Towns Partnership).
The Scottish       Government commissioned retail-led regeneration review suggested a much       tighter focus for the activities of local and national governments in       regeneration in town centres and led to extensive and continuing political       and business debate on regeneration and town centres (for example via the       learning network, the Parliamentary Cross-Party Group on Towns and Town       Centres, Scottish Towns Policy Group and Scotland's Towns Partnership, all       of which have been influenced by presentations, research and reports on       the subject by Leigh Sparks).
These planning policy and regeneration strands came together in the       development of the Town Centre Regeneration Fund in 2009, which invested       &#163;60m into a series of retail and town centre regeneration schemes across       Scotland.
This more focused investment followed the recommendation for a       town centre improvement fund in the 2004 research and the need to focus       investment identified in the 2008 research (and presented by Leigh Sparks       to the relevant Cabinet Minister John Swinney at the Vital and Viable Town       Centres conference that year).
The TCRF has received substantial publicity       and is recognised as innovative in this policy area in the UK; its lessons       and impacts have been assessed by Douglas Wheeler and Associates for the       Scottish Government.
Our initial research on town centres and retailing led to Leigh Sparks       being invited by the Scottish Government to become a Board Member of IDS       Scotland &#8212; the `arms-length' company set up to deliver Business       Improvement Districts in Scotland (there are now 20 operational BIDs in       Scotland) &#8212; and to being invited to chair Scottish Towns Policy Group by       the Centre for Scottish Public Policy.
The CSPP work (including       establishing Scotland's Towns Partnership and the Cross-Party Group)       raised public and political pressure in Scotland, especially after the       Portas Review into High Streets in England.
This culminated in the Deputy       First Minister announcing a National Review of Town Centres in 2012.
Led       by Malcolm Fraser and supported by an External Advisory Group (to which       Leigh Sparks was appointed by the Scottish Government in recognition of       his retail and town centre research), this review was published in July       2013 and suggested a range of proposals to government.
The formal Scottish       Government response to this review is due to be published in November       2013, but an initial &#163;2m has been announced to assist opening up living       accommodation in town centres (http://www.scotregen.co.uk/2m-town-centre-regeneration-funding-         announced/ and http://news.scotland.gov.uk/News/-2m-Town-Centre-Housing-Fund-opens-         4aa.aspx).
The Fraser Review focuses on town centres and the activities needed to       actively support and re-imagine them in Scotland.
The recommendations of       the review derive from the main findings of the Town Centre Uses report       and the NPPG8 evaluation; e.g.
town centre profile, town centre       efficiency, bottom-up local policy and practice development, town centre       first policies.
The thinking from the 2004 evaluation has continued to       inform and direct policy debate, development and Government action in this       area in Scotland, aided by the work on regeneration in town centres and       the role of retail in that regeneration.
