     Bell and Blanchflower's research on youth unemployment had a significant       effect in raising       awareness and in eliciting policy response.
During the period from early       2008, Bell and       Blanchflower were also heavily involved in dissemination activities both       inside and outside       government and inside and outside the UK.
There are clear policy impacts from their research and dissemination       activities:     It affected the 2009 Autumn Statement in which the Chancellor, Mr       Darling, introduced measures       to combat youth unemployment.
He brought forward the Young Person's         Guarantee which would       guarantee work or training to every 18 to 24-year-old after 6 months out       of work.
Darling then       introduced a measure to guarantee a place in training or education for       every 16 or 17 year-old.
The       language in the Chancellor's statement drew heavily on the       Bell-Blanchflower research.
Specifically, he argued that "To promote growth, we also need to invest         in the skills of young         people to prevent a `lost generation' of youth unemployment."
and "Past         recessions have had a         very damaging impact on young people, who should have been starting         their working lives, but         instead were unemployed."
The influence of the Bell-Blanchflower       research on the introduction of       these policies was further confirmed by Yvette Cooper, then Chief       Secretary to the Treasury.
During the course of the recession many other contributions highlighting       the issue of youth       unemployment followed the initial contribution of Bell and Blanchflower.
Together these have       focussed the attention of policymakers worldwide on the personal and       social costs of youth       unemployment.
At a meeting in Berlin in July 2013, Chancellor Merkel       described youth       unemployment as "perhaps the most pressing problem facing Europe at the       present time".
At this       meeting the European leaders agreed to implement a youth guarantee in       areas where youth       unemployment exceeded 25 per cent.
This policy, for which a budget of &#8364;6bn       has been set aside,       is similar to the measure which was introduced in the UK in 2009 (as       described above).
The research papers were quoted extensively in policy documents (listed       in section 5).
They were       also referred to during House of Commons debates by politicians including       John Hayes (South       Holland and the Deepings), Steve McCabe (Birmingham, Selly Oak), Nick       Ainger (Carmarthen,       West and South Pembrokeshire), and Alastair Darling.
Mr Darling's 2009       Autumn Statement       rehearses many of the arguments made in Bell and Blanchflower's early       papers on the impact of       youth unemployment.
Bell and Blanchflower were invited to be members of a working group set       up by the Bank of       England to consider policies that might be used to combat rising       unemployment.
Bell was one of       only two UK academics invited to meet with the Prime Minister, the       Secretary of State for Work and       Pensions (Iain Duncan Smith), and the Minister of State for Employment       (Chris Grayling) as part of       a `youth labour market summit' in Downing Street in 2011.
He has also met       with politicians from       France, Ireland and Canada in relation to this work.
In 2011, Bell       presented the research to the       Secretary of State for Scotland and the Secretary of State for Work and       Pensions.
He also debated       youth unemployment at meetings arranged by the OECD and the EU.
The research also led to the introduction of a new index of excess       capacity in the labour market       (an alternative to the unemployment rate) which is being used to inform UK       monetary policy.
Although the Bell-Blanchflower index was only published in May 2013, it       was quoted in the August       2013 Bank of England inflation report and by a member of the Monetary       Policy Committee in a       speech in August 2013.
In 2013, the effect of the index is to add to the       arguments that suggest       deferring any increase in interest rates.
