     Key findings from the studies outlined above have been shared widely with       international policy makers, NGOs and social work professionals to effect       significant changes in policy and practice relating to child welfare.
The       results of the work conducted in Rwanda on family reunification, foster       care and street children were communicated nationally to government and       non-governmental agencies in Rwanda and internationally through Unicef,       Save the Children Alliance and the International Foster Care Association.
Findings of the study on children outside parental care in Bangladesh were       disseminated regionally through the Asian Office of Unicef and       internationally through Save the Children Alliance and the International       Committee on the Rights of the Child.
The research has subsequently       influenced national policy in Rwanda, professional standards and best       practice for development workers in Africa and Asia, social work practice       for professionals in the United Kingdom, and legal representation in the       USA.
Impacts on national government policies in Rwanda.
The research on child protection and social welfare has informed the       development of policy in post-genocide Rwanda, including the `National       Policy on Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children' (2003), which draws on       the study foster care [3] and on findings reported in the study on street       children [1] in setting out its recommendations [a].
The work on       foster care particularly informed the strategy set out in section 6.2 of       that document, which describes the need to establish a legal framework for       fostering and adoption; raise awareness of the rights of children in       foster families; and develop effective methods of monitoring, reviewing       and sustaining care for children, particularly where they had been       spontaneously fostered.
Key findings of an earlier (1998) report by Don&#224;       and others on street children were summarised in [1] and informed the       strategy set out in section 6.3 of the National Policy.
This sets out       plans to reinforce existing programmes for the socio-economic and social       reintegration of street children, and to establish community-level       prevention mechanisms.
These policies were discussed and approved by the Rwandan Parliament in       2003, but have continued to have very significant effects during the       period of REF assessment.
Prior to 2003, Rwanda had no comprehensive       policy at all addressing the needs of orphans and vulnerable children,       although the number of such children was &#8212; and remains &#8212; high.
In 2011,       the Rwandan Ministry of Gender and Family Promotion (MGFP) estimated that       the number of children living in difficult circumstances was approximately       one million &#8212; one eighth of the population.
By informing the       research-driven policies that continue to frame the social care of those       children, the recommendations resulting from the research outlined above       have continued both to feed into existing policy and strategic planning in       Rwanda and, thereby, to have important impacts on the lives of this large       proportion of its population.
This on-going influence is evident, for       example, in the 2011 MGFP `Strategic Plan for the Integrated Child Rights       Policy', Section 2 (on `family and alternative care') and Section 7 (on       `Child participation'), which clearly reflect and respond to       recommendations arising from the research [b].
Don&#224;'s emphasis on       the need for legal frameworks for foster care has been especially       influential here, but so too has her call for child participation       throughout the foster care process, a recommendation based on the       development of the unique participatory methods of child welfare research       outlined above.
Impacts on professional standards and best practice: learning and         advocacy resources for development and social work professionals.
In addition to its impacts on policy development, that methodology has       had a significant influence on the training of and services provided by       professionals working in the field of international child welfare, and       informed a shift in the approach taken to child welfare by social care       practitioners around the world.
These impacts on training and,       subsequently, on understanding and practice, arise particularly from best       practice recommendations made in the studies on foster care [3] and       children living outside parental care [4].
Since 2008, these have been       incorporated into training materials produced and used by UN child       protection officers and non-governmental agency staff working with       children in post-conflict emergency and development contexts.
Thus, for       example, recommendations in [4] about the mechanisms for family support to       prevent institutionalisation appear in the 2008 Unicef document `What You       Can Do About Alternative Care in South Asia: an Advocacy Toolkit' [c].
The influence of the research is especially evident in the section on       strategies and tools to prevent institutionalization and family       breakdowns.
The toolkit has been disseminated widely by the Unicef       Regional Office for South Asia and by the Kenya Network of Careleavers       (www.kesca.org/), a youth organisation run by and for young people who       have grown up or spent part of their life in institutional care or       rehabilitation centres of some description.
Recommendations set out in [3] for setting up fostering programmes       likewise appear in a 2009 Action for the Rights of Children `Resources       Pack' [d], a capacity-building tool for child protection in and       after emergencies, which is available to all UN staff and Save the       Children workers.
Guidelines for setting up individual foster and kinship       care arrangements (such as identifying willing families, providing       information, undertaking screening, and matching children with caregivers)       have also been adapted from [3] and incorporated into Save the Children's       2010 `Alternative Care in Emergencies &#8212; ACE &#8212; Toolkit' [e], which       was prepared for the Interagency Working Group on Separated and       Unaccompanied Children.
The same study has had further international       impacts through its citation in the influential 2012 EveryChild document,       `Making Social Work Work: Improving Social Work for Vulnerable Families       and Children Without Parental Care Around the World'.
Therein, it       particularly informs the recruitment of foster carers willing to undertake       short-term placements, as well as a system of effective planning for       children in foster care [f].
It is likewise used by the Better       Care Network (http://www.crin.org/bcn),       a website set up by UN agencies and non-governmental agencies to increase       the global exchange of knowledge and experience about children without       parental care.
In addition to informing best practice in contexts of international       development and emergencies, Don&#224;'s research has also had impacts on       mainstream social care both in the UK and elsewhere, especially through       its use as the basis for learning and information resources.
Various of       her publications, including [3] and [6], for example, are available to UK       professionals through `Social Care Online &#8212; Better Knowledge for Better       Practice' (www.scie-socialcareonline.org.uk),       the UK's largest database of information and research on all aspects of       social care and social work, which is used by childcare and social       workers.
Guidelines on child participation in research have also been       developed in response to the success of the methodology outlined above.
These have been used to raise awareness among UK practitioners of the       importance of making children's voices heard through online advocacy       resources such as Social Care Online, and of the promotion of public       involvement in health and social care provided through the UK National       Health Services (2011) [g].
Legal practice.
Beyond its intended impacts on and benefits for both governmental and       non-governmental organizations in the countries in which it was conducted,       the research had some more surprising impacts elsewhere.
Information on       customary foster care arrangements in Rwanda resulting from [3] has, for       instance, underpinned an expert testimony declaration prepared by Don&#224; in       February 2010 for US Law Firm Latham and Watkins LLP.
This testimony was       submitted to the US Board of Immigration Appeals in support of an asylum       application from a young Rwandan girl hoping to join her adoptive mother,       a lawful permanent resident in the USA.
On 31st March 2011, the Board of       Immigration Appeals (BIA) Executive Office for Immigration Review       overturned an initial decision to refuse asylum, largely on the basis of       the submission of the affidavit containing Don&#224;'s testimony.
The following       excerpt from an email sent to Don&#224; by Latham and Watkins LLP indicates the       significance of her research findings for the security and welfare of this       single individual: `Please let me take a moment to express how very       appreciative we are of your efforts related to this case!
I especially       wanted to mention that the BIA decision makes a specific reference to the       fostering vs. adoption practices that you discussed in your affidavit, and       in your report (which we submitted as supporting documentation), so we       know that your affidavit really made a favourable difference in their       consideration of the case'.
The firm reported recently that their young       client has applied for her visa and hopes to be reunited with her mother       in the U.S. before the end of 2013 [h].
