     The impact relates to five interlinked projects conducted by Bell       in association with colleagues in the School of Applied Social Science.
These were funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the Scottish       Government and the Welsh Assembly Government and examined long-term care       costs with a particular focus on the costs and benefits of providing free       personal care for older people in Scotland and Wales.
The impact began in       2005 when Bell's analysis of the costs of free personal care in Wales led       to an abandonment of this Assembly Government policy.
Here we focus on       impact from 2008 onwards.
The `reach' of the impact has been substantial: the research findings       have played a significant role in ensuring better informed public       policy-making in the field of personal care provision in Scotland,       England, Wales and Northern Ireland, leading to direct changes in policy       and practice.
As a guideline to the numbers of people affected by the       research findings and the related policies, 33,000 older people funding       received free personal care in Scotland in 2003-4 and by 2011-12 this had       risen to 46,000, with costs of &#163;342m.
In addition, the impact has achieved       international reach, through the World Demographic Association in       Switzerland (Bell is a Fellow of this organisation) and via Bell and Bowes       contribution to a Russell Sage foundation publication led by Syracuse       University's Maxwell School of Citizenship, which aimed to influence       implementation of the CLASS Act USA (Community Living Assistance Services       and Supports) in the USA.
The published volume continues to contribute to       the debate through the Russell Sage Foundation's commitment to `the       improvement of social and living conditions in the United States'     The `significance' of the research findings has also been substantial.
The project set out baseline information which enabled the monitoring of       the free personal care policy in Scotland, which was reviewed by Audit       Scotland in 2008 and subsequently cited in the Sutherland review in 2008.
This confirmed the all-party commitment to free personal care in Scotland,       despite rising costs.
The significance of the research findings was felt       more acutely in the English, Welsh and Northern Ireland policy contexts.
The research was cited as part of the Wanless review of various options       for funding social care in 2006, which continues to inform debate and has       led to the ongoing development of long-term care policies in England (and       a continuing rejection of the Scottish model of free personal care in the       English context, most recently represented in the Dilnot report of 2011).
The follow-up research on expenditure on domiciliary care in Wales.
The       research team gave expert evidence to the Northern Ireland government       based on the research findings in 2008, which was reported to the Minister       and was instrumental in the decision not to provide free personal care to       the over 65s in Northern Ireland.
More recently, the team has developed the research, using       microsimulation, to examine the future costs of self-directed support in       Scotland.
The research has informed the new legislation in this area       through the Scottish Parliament implementing self-directed support,       potentially affecting 100,000 service users across the country (Social       Care (Self-directed Support (Scotland) Act 2013).
In May 2012, Bell       addressed the Health and Sport Committee on the subject of the costs of       Self-Directed Support.
And as a result of his previous research, he is now       working with the Scottish Government on a US National Institute of Ageing       project to improve the quality of data on long-term care clients.
