     The Stirling research addresses the critical research, policy and       effective public health interventions gap influencing key stakeholders       through a high profile preventive message in public settings.
1) UK impact     Scottish government funding of drug treatments for occupationally related       diseases changed following research from the team (Experts fight to keep       NHS treatment for cancer Herald April 26 2007; Herald Editorial on Alimta       26 April 2007).
Macmillan Scotland found the research "contributed to and benefited work       on cancer prevention and the economic consequences of work-related       cancers.
The research from the group during 2003 to 2013 on the scale,       costs and consequences of occupational cancers has been used by Macmillan       to develop work on welfare rights that greatly improved the quality of       advice to support cancer patients in Scotland.
The research papers from       the group on asbestos-related cancers and cancer prevention have helped       to shape relevant parts of Macmillan policy and practice and on-going       projects to support those with a range of work-related cancers including       the development of Macmillan's benefit advisers' network in Scotland."
The TUC &#8212; 6 million members in 53 affiliated bodies &#8212; observed that the       research "has enabled us to increase awareness and understanding about the       true burden of occupational cancers amongst our membership and the wider       occupational health and safety community.
In addition we have used the       published research in our discussions and campaigning work with the HSE       and government as we seek to increase the priority and resources given to       this area of work.
Finally we have used it to educate and inform our       activists through guidance and training courses with the aim of ensuring       that the information is used to prevent further exposure".
Other civil society groups &#8212; the Alliance for Cancer Prevention, the       Cancer Prevention Society, ChemTrust, WWF and FOE &#8212; have all used the work       of the team.
2) International reach and impact     Beyond Europe, international organisations have used the research to       inform policy and practice (2009-2013).
European MEP groups invited the       team to present findings published in 2006 on the economic costs of       specific occupational cancers at the European Parliament.
WHO commissioned       the lead researcher to prepare a tool kit on costing certain occupational       cancers (WHO 2012/13).
.
A team member, O'Neill, now acts as a reviewer       for WHO health and safety initiatives.
In 2006 the team were invited to       contribute to global conferences for health professionals as well as       academic researchers ( Living in Chemical World: framing the future in the       light of the past Conference.
Italy 2006.
Annals of New York Academy of       Sciences.
Vol 1076).
For the ITUC, representing 175 million workers in 156 countries, the       research "served as a critical support for ITUC official interventions in       UN-led intergovernmental processes, such as the Strategic Approach for       International Chemicals' Management (SAICM) and the three chemical-related       UN conventions (Rotterdam, Basel and Stockholm).
The `Zero Cancer       campaign' was also incorporated as best practice for the union movement       action on chemical management".
The `Zero Cancer' strategy, based on       recommendations proposed by the Stirling research, was adopted by the       International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) and publicised worldwide,       with activities including a global day of action on occupational cancer.
The research formed the basis for new global occupational cancer       prevention and costing policies developed by the International       Metalworkers' Federation and the Building and Woodworkers' International       (BWI).
BWI represents around 328 trade unions representing around 12       million members in 130 countries.
The Lowell Center for Sustainable Production and the Massachusetts Toxics       Use Reduction Institute &#8212; considered that " your occupational cancer       prevention and "Zero Cancer" campaign have strongly affected our input to       the (US) President's Cancer Panel report "Reducing Environmental Cancer       Risk," released in 2010.
Your work has also supported our efforts at the       Toxics Use Reduction Institute to reduce carcinogenic chemicals used and       released by Massachusetts companies.
The Toxics Use Reduction Institute is       a multi-disciplinary research, education and policy center that helps       companies and communities reduce the use of toxic chemicals.
There was a       32% reduction in use of carcinogens and 93% decline in releases in the       period 1991-2010, as reported earlier this year.
We consider your Zero       Cancer work in the UK to be a model for what we are trying to achieve in       our efforts toward a cancer-free economy in Massachusetts and the U.S"     The Stirling team have also acted as expert advisers for the Clean       Clothes Campaign silica-related disease prevention working party       (international), the People's Training and Advisory Centre's board on       occupational disease prevention (India) and the International Centre for       Responsible Technology's international board (US/Global).
