     The GOSE is designed to standardize outcome assessments in traumatic       brain injury.
It has had a       specific impact on the practice of clinical trials in traumatic brain       injury and subarachnoid       haemorrhage.
In the United States the GOSE has been adopted by the       National Institute of       Neurological Disorders and Strokes (NINDS) taskforce for Common Data       Elements for TBI (Wilde       et al., 2010, Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 91,       1650-1660) and by the       Traumatic Brain Injury Clinical Trials Network (Bagiella, et al 2010,       Journal of Head Trauma       Rehabilitation, 25, 375-382).
The GOSE is the only outcome measure       described as `core' for       traumatic brain injury by the NINDS Common Data Elements project.
The GOSE       has also been       recommended as the most responsive outcome assessment in major trauma       (Williamson et al       2011, Journal of Trauma-Injury Infection and Critical Care, 71(1), 63-68).
The adoption of the       GOSE in trauma registries is significant because such registries form a       key component in       improving clinical care for trauma.
The National Institutes of Health Clinical Trials website maintains a       register of clinical studies, and       lists 31 trials active during the REF period in which the GOSE is a       primary (12 trials) or secondary       (19 trials) endpoint, and six of these trials have been/ are sponsored by       industry.
One of the       reasons that global functional status is a key endpoint is that serves as       a check on the side effects       of potent drug treatments or radical surgical interventions.
The GOSE was       an endpoint in a series       of studies conducted by Swiss company Actelion Pharmaceuticals of the drug       Clazosentan,       designed to reduce brain damage caused by bleeding.
The Conscious I, II,       and III trials were       conducted from 2004 to 2011, and Wilson was an adviser to Actelion on       outcome assessment.
The       trials showed that the drug had the intended effect on brain pathology,       but did not improve global       outcome, a result that can be attributed to the balance between benefits       and adverse effects of       treatment.
The GOSE was also an endpoint in a trial of decompressive       craniectomy (DECRA), a       surgical treatment designed relieve brain swelling.
The results were       controversial because the       treated group had worse outcomes on the GOSE, and this led to debate over       clinical practice.
The       findings have stimulated conduct of a further trial, RESCUE-ICP, also       using the GOSE as a       primary endpoint.
Although the main impact of the GOSE has been on evaluation of care and       treatment, it is also       used as a summary measure of disability in individuals.
For example it is       used as a tool in a       medico-legal context in Canada.
The QOLIBRI was published relatively recently, but is already being       widely taken up as an       assessment.
The QOLIBRI is available as a longer version suitable for       clinical use, and a separate       short scale appropriate for large-scale studies.
The value of the QOLIBRI       in clinical use with       individuals is in facilitating communication, as an aid to rehabilitation       planning, and in evaluation of       progress (Koskinen et al, 2011).
The QOLIBRI instruments are freely available from the project website.
As       of 7.10.13 there had       been 412 downloads to users in 33 countries.
Registrations are split       between the following types of       users: Clinical centre 68, Health services 90, Rehabilitation centre 103,       University 148, and Other       15.
A few examples of reasons given for using the scale include: "Clinical       use in rehabilitation of       neurological patients" (City Hospital, Finland); "Provide a rehabilitation       service to clients with       acquired brain injury, many of whom have issues with quality of life"       (Community Rehabilitation,       UK); "Person centred treatment planning for persons with acquired brain       injury in long-term care       facility" (Health Authority, Canada); "Provide quality of care and quality       of life to traumatic brain       injury patients" (City Hospital, Thailand); "Assess effectiveness of       activities with clients at several       different intervals" (Support Centre, USA); "Provide feedback and       monitoring of clients as they get       treatment" (Private practice, USA).
The QOLIBRI has been adopted by the TOIMIA network in Finland.
Comments       from clinicians       using the assessment in brain injury rehabilitation include: the QOLIBRI       "... is a valuable tool in       goal setting" , "...can be very useful in increasing self reflection", "       ... can help to strengthen the       therapeutic alliance", "...can be used as a tool to evaluate individual       progress in rehabilitation", "...a       good tool when communicating with other professionals in the       multiprofessional team".
The QOLIBRI has been adopted as a supplementary measure by the NINDS       Common Data       Elements project, and is also being used in clinical trials in brain       injury.
