     Oxford Opera research has contributed to a significant broadening of the       contemporary operatic       audience.
Public understanding and appreciation of the genre have been       improved, and operatic       works have thus been rendered accessible to those without formal musical       education.
Public       engagement with opera has been enhanced through the recreation and       promotion of historical       performance modes, and new audiences have been engaged through specially       designed target       works for children and radio listeners.
The interactive space created by       NCO has equipped a       number of young opera practitioners with the knowledge, skills and       experience they require for a       successful career in operatic performance and/or production.
Enhancing Public Understanding and Appreciation of Opera     Aspden's research on Handel has informed frequent TV and Radio features       throughout the       census period.
A particular highlight was her regular contribution to the       extensive media coverage       of Handel's anniversary year in 2009, including a year-long Handel blog on       the BBC website [Section           5: i], discussion of Handel on BBC Radio 3's Opera on 3       and Composer of the Week, and on the       BBC4 TV series The Birth of British Music, Opera Italia,       and Opera's Fallen Women.
The impact of       Aspden's research, communicated to a wider public in this manner, is       attested by her evident       popularity with producers: she has been asked to return for further       contributions to broadcasts and       documentaries (such as BBC4's The Symphony).
An Oxford Music       graduate working on Radio 3's       The Choir observed, "Notably, several people there asked if I knew       you [Aspden], and proceeded       to describe you as the best they've ever had and `not stuffy like most       academics'.
"[1]     The BBC Radio 3 programmes to which Cross regularly contributes achieve       significant average       listener reach of around 1.9m[ii].
He has contributed, for       example, to Opera on 3, (Birtwistle's The         Minotaur [31 May 2008] and Harvey's Wagner Dream [5 May       2012]) and Radio 3's flagship       programme Music Matters (Stravinsky's The Rake's Progress       [10 March 2012]), on which Saxton       also frequently appears.
Cross's repeat invitations to discuss       contemporary opera on Radio 3 and       BBC4 Proms broadcasts (e.g., live from the 2009 performance of       Birtwistle's The Mask of         Orpheus), and at public events for orchestras and opera companies       such as Glyndebourne and       English National Opera, attest to his ability to communicate about       "difficult" contemporary music to       a non-specialist audience.
The chief producer of the BBC Symphony       Orchestra has written:       "Professor Cross is exceptional &amp; outstanding in his ability to       communicate clearly &amp; engagingly       about challenging contemporary classical music to a general public.
He is       greatly valued by the       BBC.
"[2] His online introduction to Stravinsky's Oedipus         Rex for the Philharmonia Orchestra has so       far received over 12,000 viewings [iii].
One YouTube       viewer commented: "Thx for this.
I'm a late       starter in opera.
The discussion gives me the courage to approach OR       - indeed, to listen to       Stravinsky."
Cross gave a lecture on Stravinsky's Paris stage works as       part of The Rest is Noise       Festival, 2013, to an audience of over 200, and the SoundCloud recording       of the event has already       received over 600 "listens".
One attendee (@aimi_hayman) tweeted,       "Yesterday's highlight was       @jonathancross on Stravinsky, architecture, dance &amp; fashion".
Bringing Opera to Life Through Historically Informed Performance     With NCO, Burden has directed over thirty productions of works by, among       others, Handel,       Cimarosa, Mozart and Charpentier, springing directly from his research       into the London stage.
These productions have had a wide public reach (annual audiences of c.       2400) [iv].
With its own       Baroque orchestra, The Band of Instruments, NCO has produced recordings of       Charpentier's       stage music and a collected edition of Rameau's cantatas for the ASV       label.
Appearances outside       Oxford have included concerts and productions at the Tudeley and Southwark       Festivals, London's       South Bank and the National Gallery.
Williams's work brings the neglected stage music of Rameau to the       attention of a wide       audience, through well-received public performances in Oxford and London,       and associated public       events such as the interdisciplinary "Rameau in Oxford" study afternoon.
His collaboration with the       OAE is also proving to be of great developmental value to the       professionals with whom he is       working.
The Chief Executive of the OAE writes, "These projects have       already been ... of       enormous benefit to the musicians of the OAE, who have been given the       opportunity of developing       their existing knowledge of the performance of eighteenth-century French       Baroque music, and       equipping them with the skills to perform with greater confidence and       stylistic precision in the       future."
[3]     Creation of New Operatic Works for Target Audiences     Harry's children's opera demonstrably reached well beyond the academic       community, and has       been particularly successful in breaking down barriers conventionally       associated with       contemporary art music [4].
"Opera is often perceived       to be an elitist art-form [...] but if we fail to       introduce young people to opera then there will be a whole generation who       become excluded from       a potentially rich art-form.
This production [of Harry's My Mother         Told Me Not To Stare] is making a       feisty, concerned effort to create an operetta that speaks to young       people's concerns yet engages       the adults accompanying them" (www.thepublicreviews.com)       [ v].
"[Harry's opera is] a brave       attempt to make what is essentially high art accessible to its target       audience of children over eight"       (Cumberland News).The benefit in particular to the many children       who experienced the opera and       took part in linked school workshops has been transformative, and is       documented in the feedback       on blogs and websites.
One child said: "I'm used to listening to rock       music so this was something       very different for me and it made an immediate impression on me."
[vi]       The opera's reach was       extensive: a critically acclaimed 7-week national tour visited such venues       as Darlington Arts       Centre, Middlesbrough Town Hall, The Unicorn Theatre (London), Ammanford       Theatre and the       Nuffield Theatre Southampton, as well as schools and community centres.
A       second season       (2012) toured from Huddersfield to Bath, Runcorn to Norwich.
The total       audience was 2931, with       an additional c.800 attending workshops.
The Wandering Jew was premiered on BBC Radio 3 on 9 July 2010 by       the BBC Symphony       Orchestra and BBC Singers, conducted by Andr&#233; de Ridder; a commercial       recording of the opera       was issued by NMC.
It has brought opera to new audiences in spaces away       from the conventional       opera house, free of charge.
"This project blew me away [...] Saxton's       tonal (or modal) musical       language ranges from the cinematic spectacular to rapt spirituality" (The         Times, ***** review,       11June 2011) [vii].
Unlike the majority of opera       broadcasts, which consist of recordings of staged       works, The Wandering Jew was composed specifically for radio [text       removed for publication] [viii]       and the associated recording is available to purchase.
The opera's       premiere and CD release [vii]       was covered extensively in the national press and supported by composer       interviews on radio and       via the NMC website, thus reaching well beyond academic audiences.
Listeners tweeted: "Robert       Saxton's The Wandering Jew @nmcrecordings is an accessible modern opera of       great humanity"       (@clivepaget); "Released on 13 June: Robert Saxton's overwhelming       choral masterpiece:       Wandering Jew, on NMC: a powerful listen..." (@vatdaddy).
Career Training and Development for Young Practitioners     NCO has a particular commitment to the development of young singers,       accompanists and arts       administrators, through the NCO Studio, repetiteur scheme, and       administrator internship [ix].
Each       year the studio stages two student productions and a recital series of       twenty-four concerts in which       they take part, with repertoire choice and production style primarily led       by the ongoing research of       Faculty members.
The repetiteur scholarship is designed for pianists       wishing to further their skills       as a repetiteur, accompanist or conductor, and involves assisting in       rehearsals, performances and       with the training of singers for NCO, and helping to organise and run       practical musical activities.
The administrative intern acts as assistant to the Company's director,       dealing with the smooth       running and marketing of the Company.
The significance of the impact of       these personal       development opportunities on young practitioners is attested by individual       testimonials: "The NCO       Repetiteur Scholarship was, without doubt, the most important part of my       university experience,       and the defining factor in my pursuit of a career in professional opera       [...] I owe my subsequent       successes entirely to this early experience.
As a result, I now feel       firmly in a career for life"; "The       Repetiteur Scholarship with NCO [...] has been the single biggest       contributing factor in my       professional and musical development to date" [5].
