     Norton's research has been disseminated through books, journal articles,       public conferences, workshops with teachers, and on the radio, all of       which has led to enhanced public awareness of the close interactions and       mutually beneficial co-existence between Islamic and Christian communities       in the early-modern Mediterranean World, something particularly relevant       in today's political and cultural environment.
In this context the role of       Norton's research is to challenge the negative stereotypes of Muslims and       Islamic cultures and through its dissemination to enhance the cultural and       religious understanding, thoughts and behaviour of individuals and groups,       with the aim of promoting a more informed public discourse.
As a result of her research Norton has been elected to the Society for       Renaissance Studies council and also to the managing council of the       British Institute at Ankara (BIAA) - the BIAA plays a key role in       fostering positive relations between Turkey and the UK and in       disseminating knowledge about Turkey to the general public.
Norton was invited on Radio 4's In Our Time hosted by Melvyn       Bragg (14th May 2009) to discuss the second Ottoman siege of       Vienna (1683).
Here again she challenged the idea of a fundamental,       hostile divide between the Christian west and Muslim east and instead       argued for the conflict to be seen in the context of local political and       economic, rather than religious, rivalries.
She has given talks to local       history associations, schools and to students visiting the university on       similar topics.
Norton's most recent project involves working with primary and secondary       school teachers and PGCE students on a project entitled `Translating         Cultures: exchange, acculturation, inclusion'.
The project provides       tangible benefits to non-academic community stakeholders, in particular       schools and local community groups.
By providing alternative narratives of       what it means to be Muslim in both a cultural and religious sense, and by       exploring the fundamental role that Islamic communities have played in the       politico-cultural and scientific development of the ern world, the project       is challenging negative stereotypes of Muslims and Islamic cultures.
It       also helps develop community cohesion and encourages the imagination of       more inclusive, plural British identities.
Specifically it aims to produce       educational materials and provide teachers with the relevant subject       knowledge to facilitate the integration of knowledge of Islamic cultures       (particularly the Ottoman Empire) into mainstream educational contexts.
As a pilot for this project an interactive pedagogical workshop for       teachers and PGCE students in the London area was held with support from a       colleague at the British Library (Nur Sobers-Khan) on 7th March 2013       entitled `Promoting Inclusion and Critical Engagement through         Education'.
It sought to encourage small but significant changes in       an educational context (primarily in the fields of history and religious       studies) in order to foster a greater sense of cohesion between different       British ethno-cultural and religious communities and an enriching of       possible imaginations of British-ness.
It attracted a number of PGCE       students, teachers and head teachers who engaged in lively discussion with       the various academics, public policy advisors, and members of the police       who presented papers.
Dr Norton also gave a paper derived from her       research for her article in the edited volume The Renaissance and the         Ottoman World.
Participants commented in the workshop feedback that they thoroughly       enjoyed the workshop felt that they could easily incorporate the       information contained in a number of the papers into their teaching, most       notably that on Islamic science and the input of Islamic cultures to the       Renaissance.
Those involved with teacher training also said they would use       the information when teaching PGCE students whom they believed would pass       on the information to their students in turn.
The intention is to develop `Translating Cultures' further in       collaboration with primary and secondary school teachers (and in       association with colleagues in the School of Education, Theology and       Leadership at SMUC, and the Department of Education at the University of       Cambridge) and to design and pilot materials that can be used by teachers       in the classroom to foster public understanding of the rich heritage of       Islamic societies and civilisations.
The reach of these various activities       among different non-academic audiences is significant and will increase as       the project continues into its second phase.
