     The LLIP is now discussed in the universities and in the different       communities in the West Bank       and Gaza.
It is not an alien concept.
Different projects are able to       identify how they contribute to       LLIP.
Collaborations between education and workplace environments formed       part of the strategic       planning; different providers now look to the universities and the       universities look to broader       projects for new initiatives that serve Palestinian society.
The LLIP       agenda is discussed by       regional partners in relation to the benchmarking results alongside the       development issues of four       of the major cities across Palestine.
Providers are thinking in a more       integrated way about work       and learning.
As a result sustainable region development is framed in a       whole range of       educational and work practices that have to function collectively in a way       that enforces the       knowledge triangle, and Palestinian communities have begun to think about       how they work in       relation to the knowledge society.
In particular the impact of Professor Masalha's contribution to the LLIP       project centres on the four       pedagogical workshops he conducted in Palestine in July 2013 on History,       Culture and Memory as       sites of Life-long Learning in Palestine and the wide local Palestinian       coverage of these meetings       and workshops.
These workshops were conducted at: the Institute for       Community Partnership,       Bethlehem University; the Institute for Continuing Education, Birzeit       University; Ramallah, the       Centre for Community Action (Old City of Jerusalem); and the Centre for       Jerusalem Studies (Old       City of Jerusalem), Al-Quds University.
Participants and beneficiaries of       these workshops were       primary and secondary school teachers, civil servants, local government       employees, members of       local cultural centres and NGOs.
The seminars and workshops contributed to       the development of       pedagogic partnerships in different settings in Palestine and these       facilitated a wide arrangement       of adult learning approaches right across Palestinian society.
Palestinian       institutions involved       linked innovative work in Life-long Learning to different regions in       Europe and the Arab world.
The       Palestinian institutions are very keen on sustaining and extending this       project beyond 2013.
The workshops contributed to co-learning experience and a dialogue across       cultures: the       participants of workshops in Palestine and the European project partners       benefited from comparing       experiences on a range of pedagogical issues central to history teaching,       critical education and       critical learning both in Palestine and internationally.
Both Palestinian       and European partners       explored how new research on local and oral memory, culture and memory       (and how individual       and collective memories interact) can nurture and enrich learning cultures       both in Palestine and       internationally.
The European partners also gained deeper insights into       the complex issues and       realities confronting the Palestinian partners.
Overall this was an       important co-learning experience.
The project contributed new material on oral history, memory and culture       as sites of learning.
A       great deal of the pedagogical material recorded at these workshops was       placed on Palestinian       websites in both Arabic and English and Professor Masalha was also       interviewed in July 2013 by       the local Palestinian TV channel about this project.
The LLIP partners also took part in the Edinburgh International Festival       in August 2012, speaking       about the Tempus programme and the Life-long Learning in Palestine       project.
This public event       was filmed and the material placed on LLIP and social media websites.
The       project filmed the       seminars and workshops and sent material to international cultural       organisations including       UNESCO.
Professor Masalha and the Palestinian partners are keen on       sustaining and extending       this project beyond December 2013.
In view of extensive knowledge of and experience with teaching       Palestinian history, and following       the success of this Tempus project, Professor Masalha was consulted by the       Palestinian Ministry       of Higher Education and the Palestinian Quality Assurance Commission (both       based in Ramallah)       on the introduction of new MA programmes at Palestinian universities and       on issues of teaching       history, culture and life-long learning in Palestine.
A new international collaboration project on Palestine's history and       cultural heritage is currently       being developed by Professor Masalha, Professor Thomas Thompson, of       Copenhagen University,       and Al-Quds University (East Jerusalem) with the view of recommending to       the Palestinian Ministry       of Education a revision of the Palestinian high-school curriculum for the       pre-Islamic history of       Palestine.
