     Beneficiaries.
The DMS project has impacted asset managers,       including pension funds, banks, in-surance companies, hedge funds,       charities and endowments, and sovereign wealth funds; leading corporations       in the UK and overseas; and governments and regulators in many countries.
Impact on asset management.
The research has impacted the       investments of major funds.
It has influenced asset allocation, risk       management and diversification, inflation and currency hedging, and       market-timing strategies.
Early adopters were the Norwegian Government       Pension Fund (the world's largest sovereign wealth fund) and PIMCO (the       world's largest mutual fund).
Impact on corporations.
The discoveries that the historical equity       risk premium is lower than previ-ously believed, and that the prospective       premium is likely to be even lower, have profound implica-tions for how       corporations should estimate their cost of capital.
Companies' required       rates of return should fall and, other things equal, a larger volume of       projects should be deemed profitable.
An early adopter was Grosvenor       Group, the UK's largest privately owned real estate company.
Impact on regulators.
There are many examples of the DMS research       strongly impacting regulatory interactions.
For example, based on DMS       evidence, regulators in many countries, including the UK Financial Conduct       Authority (formerly the Financial Services Authority), have reigned in the       investment returns that financial product manufacturers and distributors       are allowed to project.
The DMS equity premium estimates have influenced rate of return and       pricing regulation around the world.
Since the DMS estimates indicate a       required rate of return on share capital, this has resulted in lower price       increases than might otherwise have been permitted, to the benefit of       consumers of electricity, gas, telecommunications, water, port fees,       railways, and so on.
In the UK, all the major regulators including the       Office of Water Services, the Office of Communications, the Office of Gas       and Electricity Markets, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Office of the       Rail Regulator, as well as the Office of Fair Trading and the Competition       Commission, have made extensive reference to the DMS research in their       submissions on what constitutes a "fair" rate of return.
Impact channels.
The research has been channelled to beneficiaries       through publications, the internet, presentations, and the media.
The       publications, including Triumph, were written to be accessible to       practitioners.
Many other publications were specifically written for       practitioner outlets, such as the CFA Institute.
The Yearbook has       been distributed in large volumes by the sponsor (currently Credit Suisse)       to its corporate, institutional investor, and wealth management clients;       it is publicly available as a free download.
The DMS dataset is       distributed through Morningstar Inc, for the benefit of other researchers,       including those in financial institutions.
The DMS team is invited to give many presentations (averaging 35 per       year), often as keynotes, at major investment conferences such as the       World Investment Forum, the National Association of Pension Funds       Investment Conference, the Asia Investment Conference, the CFA Institute       Conference, the World Economic and Future Forum, and the Institutional       Investor Conference.
The press and media have been important in disseminating and generating       awareness of the research.
Since the end of 1999, the team's research       has been described and cited in some 2,200 press articles in 50 countries       (list available on request), while during the assessment period, there       have been over 900 press articles covering or referring to the research.
These include the Financial Times, the Economist, the Wall Street Journal,       the Times, and Money Management.
