     Context.
The research was developed in the light of events such as       the failures of Enron (in 2001)       and WorldCom (in 2002) and later the financial crisis of 2007-08, which       undermined the (once       widely held) view that Anglo-American model&#8212;listed firms with shares       widely held by institutional       investors and monitored by a board of independent directors&#8212;is the best       form of organisation.
Impact platform and channels.
Julian Franks founded the Corporate       Governance Centre (hence-forth "the Centre") at LBS.
It is a focal point for corporate governance       research, and a platform to       enable communication of the research output to both academic and       practitioner audiences.
The main channel for the impact has been the direct interaction between       Julian Franks and beneficiaries of the impact.
In the context of extensive interaction,       documented below, he has directly       used the knowledge and expertise derived from his long-running research       programme.
Beneficiaries.
Franks and the Centre use LBS research to examine       the effectiveness of capital       market mechanisms for developing and sustaining trust between boards,       corporate executives,       investing institutions, regulators, and the public.
The Centre is also a       vehicle for discussing these       issues with policy-makers and regulators.
The stakeholders listed here are       the key beneficiaries.
Policymaking.
Franks has used his research directly in       policymaking exercise: each contribution,       consultation, or evidence provision was driven by the evidence-based       research on corporate governance reported here.
The following reports, reviews, and roundtables are       policymaking impact       events to which he contributed.
This non-exhaustive list gives ten       examples:     (i) Walker Report: a review of corporate governance in UK banks and other       financial entities.
(ii) Breedon Committee: a taskforce that examined barriers to alternative       debt markets.
(iii) Liikanen Group: the high-level expert group on reforming the       structure of EU banking.
(iv) Kay Review: review of UK equity markets and long-term decision       making, led by John Kay.
(v) Vickers Commission: a government into possible reforms to the UK       banking sector.
(vi) Hogg Report: a review of the effectiveness of the Combined Code on       Corporate Governance.
(vii) House of Lord Committee on Banking Standards: evidence on bank       board governance.
(viii) UK Treasury: discussion of reform with respect to the state of       corporate bankruptcy.
(ix) Bank of England: private roundtable on the governance of banks.
(x) Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation: roundtable on       governance and listing rules.
Beyond this list, Franks has participated in European policy making:       examples include a workshop       on the European Commission Action Plan on Company Llaw and Corporate       Governance in 2013,       where he spoke on the future of governance regulation and chaired a panel       discussion, and a       seminar to the European Commission on shareholder activism in 2012.
The       latter seminar was       directly related to the underpinning research of Becht-Franks-Mayer-Rossi       (2010).
Impact events.
Franks and the Centre have been involved in and       hosted events which have been       used to communicate the findings of the research to beneficiaries.
Examples follow.
(i) In October 2008, the Centre provided a platform for leading figures       from the City and regulatory       communities.
Stakeholders here included Hector Sants (CEO of the Financial       Services Authority)       and the leaders of UBS and JP Morgan investment banks.
(ii) In June 2009 Lord Myners, Financial Services Secretary to HM       Treasury, asked the Centre to       host a major Colloquium: "Boards and Investors: Mutual Obligations and       Enhanced Responsibilities."
This served as a major policy forum attended by senior managers,       non-executive directors       and senior investors, in the context of the Walker Report and the Hogg       Code.
Attendees included       Lord Myners, Sir Martin Sorrell (CEO, WPP), Sir John Rose (CEO, Rolls       Royce), Xavier Roulet       (CEO, London Stock Exchange), Baroness Hogg (Chairman, 3i), David Pitt       Watson (Hermes),       David Jackson (BP) and Dr. Antonio Borges (Hedge Fund Standards Board).
(iii) A second event was convened by Lord Myners and the Centre in       December 2009 to discuss and collect feedback on the Hogg and Walker reports.
Over 50       attendees included Marcus       Agius (Chairman, Barclays), Keith Skeoch (CEO, Standard Life), Sir David       Walker, David Blitzer       (Senior Managing Director, Blackstone), Gordon MCcullum (CEO, Virgin       Group), Niall Fitzgerald       (Thomson Reuters), Patricia Hewitt (BT Group), Richard Burrows (Chairman,       BAT), David Tyler       (Chairman, Sainsburys), and Roger Carr (Chairman, Cadbury).
