     (a) Key Research Findings.
Exploiting her human resource       expertise, the broad contribution of Lynda Gratton is to understand better       how teams (in particular, complex teams) can operate more productively in       a contemporary context; the impact is from sharing this understanding and       from providing specifb01c tools (such as the Gratton team-performance       diagnostic) to organizations.
(b) Benefb01ciaries.
The potential benefb01ciaries include all       organizations that face the transforming forces of globalization and       technology.
Specifb01c benefb01ciaries include the many thousands of       readers of her practitioner-accessible books, and (in the context of the       Hots Spots Movement) her clients and commercial partners.
The illustrative       examples specifb01cally described in this case study are the Singapore       Ministry of Manpower, Royal Dutch Shell, Tata Consultancy Services, and       the members of the World Economic Forum; other leading client       organizations include American Express, Centrica, Cisco, John Lewis,       Microsoft, UBS, Vodafone, and many others.
(c) The Research-Impact Interaction.
An important feature of this       case study is that the eventual impact of the research has been       intertwined with the research itself.
The major benefb01ciaries of the       research have been integral to the research programme.
Moreover, a       long-term aim of maximizing the reach of the impact was an important part       of the research publication strategy.
(d) Impact Channels.
Gratton's impact has been enhanced by her       creation of channels to allow the effective communication of her research       fb01ndings to the benefb01ciaries.
Hot Spots Movement in a specialist research and consulting team,       founded by Gratton, that bridges academia and business.
Gratton's research       is used to build collaborative capability for clients, and to future-proof       organizations.
Hot Spots Movement has made a substantial investment into       innovative learning platforms, and offers a suite of highly focused tools       for clients' use.
A complementary channel is Gratton's Future of Work Research         Consortium, which brings to-gether the ultimate benefb01ciaries of       the research; it unites academic research and organizational practice for       its members.
The associated FoWlab (Future of Work lab) platform       is an opportunity to engage employees in an informed, focused, realtime       debate.
Traditionally, organizations have used surveys and focus groups,       but these approaches are time-consuming, expensive, limited to       pre-defb01ned questions, and often lack actionable solutions.
In contrast,       FoWlab offers a powerful and creative alternative by providing a       facilitated space for employees to experiment with ideas in an open and       collaborative environment.
It is a leading example of a jam platform: this       is an internet-based platform for conducting conversations through "wisdom       of the crowds" brainstorming.
FoWlab offers opportunities to analyze the       conversations and distill the key messages.
More generally, a distinctive feature of the research process and       dissemination has been the use of social media.
During the FoW consortium,       a weekly FoWville Gazette goes to all consortium members.
For a wider       audience there is a frequently updated website, and a monthly Hot Spots       newsletter goes to more than 10,000 executives and academics in more than       20 countries.
Gratton also contributes a blog which is posted at Business       Strategy Review, and on the Forbes site.
Recognition.
Lynda Gratton's research has changed how complex       teams are managed and has helped executives to prepare for technological       transformation.
This has been recognized by her positions and awards.
For       example: she is on the expert panel for the Wall Street Journal; she was       (in 2008) selected by the Financial Times as a business thinker most       likely to make a difference; she was ranked (in 2011) by the Times as one       of the top 15 business thinkers; and in Human Resources magazine she       topped (in 2011) the poll for the most infb02uential thinkers.
Detailed Evidence for the Impact.
Specifb01c impact is achieved       with client organizations that exploit Gratton's research.
Four specifb01c       examples are reported here.
(i) Singapore Ministry of Manpower.
The Ministry of Manpower       (MOM) has made extensive use of the complex team diagnostic (developed by       Gratton as part of the underpinning research) and has been a member of the       Future of Work consortium since its inception.
Gratton's research on the       future of work has also been the keynote for Singapore's Human Capital       Conference on more than three occasions.
Gratton has served as a Fellow of       MOM.
(ii) Royal Dutch Shell.
Shell was a founder a member of the FoW       research consortium.
Gratton's research has been used with the human       resources and scenario planning functions to think about the future of       work at Shell.
She has served as a member of their `Great Minds' panel and       has been an external member of the human resource strategy panel for the       corporation.
(iii) Tata Consultancy Services.
TCS, a founder member of the       Freedom of Work consortium, has extensively used Gratton's research,       particularly around complex collaboration and technology.
Gratton has also       worked with the CEO of TCS on a series of work-design experiments.
(iv) World Economic Forum The WEF is the premium CEO network,       both through its councils and at its Davos meeting.
Gratton has chaired       the council on the Future of Leadership.
In 2013 she developed a workshop       on the Future of Work that attracted CEOs from across the world.
