     Context.
Key statistics on the present state of the economy are       available with a delay, and so now-casting is directly relevant for anyone       who needs to act on those statistics.
For example, the fb01rst offb01cial       estimates of quarterly Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the UK and USA are       published approximately one month after the reference quarter; in the Euro       area the lag is 2-3 weeks longer.
Relevant research.
The relevant fb01ndings is the entire       now-casting methodology developed in the underpinning research       publications.
Thus the outputs that have impact are the statistic       modelling techniques and the automated implementation of the techniques.
Benefb01ciaries.
Two key groups of benefb01ciaries are (a) central       banks and policy institutions; and (b) private enterprises, especially       hedge funds and investment banks.
Within category (a), most central banks and other fb01nancial       institutions around the world have now adopted the now-casting methodology       on a routine basis.
Examples of these benefb01ciaries include: (i) the       Euro system of central banks; (ii) the International Monetary Fund (IMF);       (iii) the Reserve Bank of New Zealand; (iv) Norges Bank; (v) the French       treasury; and (vi) the Hong Kong Institute for Monetary Research.
Members       of sub-category (i) include Deutsche Bundesbank, Banque de France,       Netherlands Central Bank, and the Central Bank of Ireland.
Within category (b), private clients, particularly hedge funds,       extensively use web-based automated now-casting services provided via the       research-derived now-casting model.
Nature and process of the impact on category (a).
In policy       institutions from category (a), including central banks, it is important       to have a timely view of the state of the economy.
The now-casting       methodology helps them to update in real time and analyze a large quantity       of data in a coherent way.
This is a step forward with respect to       judgemental procedures.
The benefb01ciaries directly use the methodology       developed by the underpinning research.
This process has been facilitated       by the publication and dissemination of those methods via the handbook       chapter surveys documented in the list of underpinning research.
It also       facilitated by the direct involvement of Reichlin with these institutions;       for example, on the research advisory committee for the Norges Bank.
Nature and process of the impact on category (b).
Turning to       category (b), private clients often lack the direct expertise to employ       directly the now-casting methods which are reported in the underpinning       research.
To enable the wider impact of the research, Reichlin and her       collaborators founded a commercial venture.
This is central to this impact       case study.
Now-Casting Economics Limited (see www.now-casting.com/about-us)       is based upon the underpinning research of Reichlin and her team.
It       publishes automated "now-casts" of current quarter GDP growth in major       economies (USA, Japan, China, the Euro Area, Germany, France, Italy,       Spain, UK, and Canada) in real time.
This service is built upon the       state-of-the-art econometric models from the underpinning research.
It       gives professional investors and others a snapshot of "where we are today"       and a transparent framework for reading the fb02ow of economic news.
Extensive back-testing analysis shows that, for assessing current quarter       GDP, Now-Casting Economics is at least as accurate as the best       professional forecasters, but signifb01cantly more timely.
Signifb01cant       changes in the macroeconomic environment are picked up earlier.
Clients       can see the impact that every relevant data release has on GDP&#8212;again, in       real time.
Subscribers also have access to a history of input data series       and to the continually revised GDP now-cast, via graphs, calendars, and       pages of detail on specifb01c data releases.
Now-Casting Economics is successful.
It supports a team of six       contributing researchers and operators, and has built up a large portfolio       of clients.
Clear evidence of impact is provided by the fact that such       clients pay signifb01cant fees for automated now-casts.
Private commercial       details are not included here, but are available via the supplementary       "sources to corroborate the impact."
