     This research guided the defensive actions of the incumbent in the       Australian telephone market,       Telstra, when faced with an external challenger in the long distance       domestic call market, Optus.
The research led to both prognostic actions (planning manpower       requirements, network dimen-       sioning, and fb01nancial structuring) and diagnostic ones (guiding       pricing, communications and ad-       vertising, and product and service provision).
The results of the study       were used from six months       prior to the launch of Optus in 1998 through to 2005.
The methodology was       also applied to other       markets of Telstra (including business long distance calls and mobile       churn) and to other telecom-       munications carriers (SingTel before it owned Optus, Alberta Telecom,       Mobicom in Mongolia, and       others).
It was also applied in other industries, including aviation and       electricity.
In terms of industry impact, the study was both accurate and insightful.
Somewhat embarrassingly,       prognostically it forecast a loss of 8.8% share to Optus after eight       months, compared to an actual       loss of 8.8%.
Diagnostically, it was able to re-direct communications away       from to a more nuanced       message about targeted improvements being implemented to continue and       enhance Telstra's his-       toric service record.
Financially, the direct impact of the study was       estimated by Telstra to be       over US$146 million, accruing from US$80m pricing benefb01ts, US$63m       benefb01ts in more focused       advertising, and US$3.5m savings in capital works adjustments.
Telstra also spoke of the soft benefb01ts in terms of improved service       capabilities and effb01ciencies.
Adoption of the study's fb01ndings with the organization were ensured by       extensive executive brief-       ings, customised workshops for individual functional areas, a decision       support aid usable in Excel,       and a series of management and technical reports.
As indicated in Figure       1, the study was ex-       tended to other Telstra markets and was still being used on an updated       basis when the authors       last had contact with Telstra in 2005.
Finally, the approach has been used       by several organizations       around the world since its initial implementation.
