     Context.
An impact of the global financial crisis is that       government debt will be high for decades to come, and this is seen as a       serious problem.
However, economic theory only relates the value of debt       today to future primary surpluses; it does not necessarily say that debt       is too high or that debt reduction should be a short-term priority.
Rises       in debt do reflect economic problems; but given the recent shocks, we       might be better off with high debt for a longer period.
Relevant research findings.
If bond markets are incomplete then       debt should act as a buffer to help accommodate temporary shocks, and debt       should show large and long-lasting swings: the underpinning research       demonstrates that government debt should show decade-long shifts, and that       optimal swings may even appear unsustainable&#8212;even though, by design, they       are not.
Furthermore, debt does not revert back to its previous level.
Rather than abruptly raise taxation and cut government expenditure, fiscal       policy should adjust over the long term.
Fiscal adjustment in the short       run is not enough to produce a surplus and so debt rises for a signifcant       period.
Beneficiaries.
The two beneficiaries are (a) government       policymakers and (b) observers within the wider financial markets.
Group       (a) includes the UK Government, via the Office for Budget Respon-sibility;       the wider group of European governments and policymakers; and the finance       ministers of the G7.
Group (b) includes financial market participants such       as credit reference agencies.
Nature of the impact.
The research findings have allowed       beneficiaries in group (a) to under-stand that current debate places too       much emphasis on rigid fiscal discipline, and has allowed beneficiaries in       group (b) to understand that longer-lasting debt may be optimal.
(a).
Governments should, of course, look at long-term solvency and       articulate a plan for debt stability.
But the imposition of hard numerical       targets and dates is a mistake.
If further shocks occur or the crisis       continues it will optimal to revise these targets.
Debt accommodates       shocks&#8212; making policy change to meet previously fixed fiscal targets puts       the cart before the horse.
(b).
Markets, credit rating agencies, and deficit hawks need to recognise       that government debt will and should remain at its elevated level for a       long time and the required adjustment is for the long haul.
Fiscal       discipline and solvency is not inconsistent with decade-long shifts in       debt.
Widespread publicity has allowed this message to be received by such       stakeholders.
The impact process.
The research findings have achieved recent       impact amongst government pol-icymakers (the first group of beneficiaries)       and have been publicised via the wider non-academic press (so impacting       the second group of beneficiaries).
The process of this impact has been       directly from the key author of the research (Andrew Scott) to the       beneficiaries.
Instances of the process and means through which the research had impact       are as follows.
(i) Europe.
The findings were promoted to governments throughout       Europe.
Andrew Scott was selected by the CEPR to give one of two policy       briefings in Brussels to European policymakers.
Relatedly, he presented       his debt management work to the European Central Bank in May 2011.
(ii) UK Treasury.
The United Kingdom Treasury invited Andrew       Scott to give two presentations&#8212; one on fiscal policy, and one on debt       management&#8212;in March and September 2011.
(iii) UK Debt Management.
A seminar on debt management, which       specifically communicated the research findings, was given to the United       Kingdom Debt Management Office in June 2012.
(iv) Bank of England.
The Bank of England arranged a special       session (RES Session 47) "Interac-tions between Monetary and Fiscal       Policy" conference, chaired by Charlie Bean (Deputy Governor, Monetary       Policy) on debt management at the Royal Economic Society on 19 April 2011.
Scott's work was presented at the request of the Bank; this session was       assembled by Spencer Dale (Chief Economist, Bank of England).
(v) G7.
This research was presented as part of a weekend with G7       Finance Ministers and their Deputies in Rome in June 2010, hence impacting       key policymakers.
(vi) OBR and FSA.
Andrew Scott directly used his research       findings in policymaking: he is a member for the expert advisory panel of       the UK's Office for Budget Responsibility; he was non-executive director       of the Financial Services Authority (2009-13) and chair of the FSA Risk       Committee.
See:            http://budgetresponsibility.org.uk/about-the-obr/who-we-are/       http://www.fsa.gov.uk/about/who/board          The high level of sovereign debt and the significant amounts held by the       European banking system is an obvious risk to the financial system.
Andrew's research suggests that these problems would get even more serious       in years to come and formed a direct input into this questioning of stress       testing and risk scenarios at the FSA.
(vii) General impact.
This research has achiever wider impact       outside academic populations via publication in the general press and       other outlets.
For example, the key messages appeared in the Financial         Times and were disseminated via voxeu.org and other channels.
See:            "A new watchdog would guard us from debt," The Times, 15         February 2010.
"US and UK can handle decades of debt," Financial Times, 28         February 2010.
"The long wave of government debt," voxeu.org, 11 March 2010.
