     Overview.
Birkinshaw's research has had a substantial impact in       the corporate sector and in       the sphere of inward investment.
His ideas have been exploited by large       companies seeking to       become more entrepreneurial and innovative, but without losing their       efficiency.
Several have used       Birkinshaw's ideas to develop diagnostic tools and instruments to help       them monitor and improve       their capacity for entrepreneurship and innovation.
A specific case is       Tata's InnoMeter.
Beneficiaries.
The key beneficiaries are, as noted above,       large companies who are seeking to       become more innovative.
Three specific examples of beneficiaries are       Tata (the main focus of this       study), UBS, and Intel.
Another group of beneficiaries comprises inward       investment agencies.
Impact in Action: The InnoMeter.
The corporate sector has used       Birkinshaw's underpinning research       to understand how they can adapt their internal structures and culture to       encourage higher       levels of corporate entrepreneurship.
A specific instance is the 2010       collaboration between Birkinshaw       and the Indian conglomerate Tata, which resulted in the invention and       implementation of the       InnoMeter.
This has been described as a thermometer which reveals       whether a business environment       is conducive to innovation, via a numerical comparison figures taken       from other companies.
FIGURE 1.
Sample Output from the Tata InnoMeter          Tata Quality Management Services (TQMS) is a division of the Tata       conglomerate.
(Tata com-       prises 100+ companies in IT, energy, engineering, chemicals, and many       other areas.)
TQMS       adds value to Tata companies, enhances their performance excellence, and       raises their global       competitiveness.
Sunil Sinha, CEO of TQMS, was quoted (p. 393) in the book       Nanovation: "Since       much of the Tata culture was driven by numbers, so people are driven by       numbers, and we thought       it may be a good idea to create a framework for evaluating innovation.
The       InnoMeter creates a       healthy and functional kind of competition among businesses as they       compare results."
The impact began when Tata used Birkinshaw as a consultant and speaker.
He was commissioned       to run a workshop on corporate entrepreneurship.
This processed developed       into a collaborative       partnership with Tata's internal quality management team; that is, with       TQMS.
The assessment tool measures the innovation process and an       organization's innovation culture.
For the first dimension, the procedure evaluates the extent to which       ideas are generated from       within the business unit; from collaboration with other parts of the Tata       group; and from collaboration       with external partners.
It also considers the conversion of ideas into       successful outputs,       by assessing the the presence of screening processes for novel ideas and       procedures for funding       them.
In essence, this first dimension considers the facilities for       dissemination of innovations.
The second dimension is the culture of innovation.
The InnoMeter measures       whether that culture       is too constrained or too loose.
There are four sub-dimensions: space       (the autonomy to       chase new ideas), direction (the guidance given to a team), boundaries       (the encouragement for       and constraints to risk taking), and support (regarding the       structure, systems, and policies of the       organization).
These connect directly to the underpinning Strategy +       Business (2003) article.
The methodology of InnoMeter involves surveys of all relevant employees;       in-depth interviews with       selected senior managers; and group discussions with randomly selected       employees.
In describing their innovation activities, Tata (see       tinyurl.com/lbs-ref-tata-1) recognizes that       Birkinshaw's procedures are embedded: "InnoMeter is a tool that acts as a       mirror for Tata compa-       nies, and as a result generates enough creative tension for companies to       initiate work on improving       their innovativeness."
They also state (tinyurl.com/lbs-ref-tata-2) that       "The entire concept is       based on Prof Birkinshaw's Innovation Value Chain."
Other Impact Episodes.
Three other examples of are briefb02y       documented here.
UBS.
Birkinshaw's research has and is used in several divisions of       UBS (a Swiss bank) including       the Wealth Management business, the central Information Technology group,       and the Leadership       Institute.
UBS applied Birkinshaw's ideas to create a series of seminars       for senior executives to       help them understand how to improve their capacity for entrepreneurial       leadership.
Intel.
Birkinshaw's research has also been applied actively in       foreign-owned subsidiaries in many       countries round the world.
For example, Intel's Irish subsidiary has used       Birkinshaw to speak to       them on several occasions, and it has applied his ideas (derived from the       underpinning research)       about subsidiary initiative and subsidiary evolution to help shape their       own long-term future.
Inward Investment.
The broader reach of Birkinshaw's research is       illustrated by its use in the       inward investment agencies.
Such agencies encourages foreign       multinationals to invest in their       country.
Birkinshawm has shown that it is insufficient to have an       attractive host environment; a       business also needs subsidiaries that are proactive in seeking out       additional investment.
This notion       of "sequential investment" whereby a small investment by a multinational       then leads to a larger       investment down the road, had been underplayed; Birkinshaw helped to show       its importance.
To       convert this message to impact, Birkinshaw acted as a speaker or       consultant for inward investment       agencies in Canada, Scotland, Ireland, Sweden and Australia.
He helped       them become       more effective in promoting the development possibilities for foreign       subsidiaries.
