     Usage of the current DIAMM web resource (which has nearly 25,000 unique       visitors a year, with nearly half of these visiting for the first time)       has demonstrated that it reaches far beyond the academic researchers in       musicology for whom it was originally designed.
DIAMM is the only site       where medieval documents of immense range, quality, and quantity may be       consulted by anyone, anywhere in the world, and from any demographic       group, without charge.
DIAMM provides the following benefits:     Enriching Resources for Early Music Performers.
There is high demand for early music both in recordings and in live       performance.
The recent expansion in electronic media has vastly augmented       the demand from performers for new sources and repertoire of early music.
Professional ensembles such as Liber unUsualis (USA), the Brabant         Ensemble, Marian Consort, Alamire Consort, Tonus         Peregrinus [i] are already users of DIAMM for a       variety of purposes, and support from DIAMM directors has provided them       with expert assistance in editing music from digital facsimiles of the       primary sources, in order to prepare their own editions of the repertories       they perform.
This has helped to overcome significant inaccuracies in       previous editions, and facilitated the performance of some previously       unheard works.
Ian Hammond (musician) [1] writes,       `DIAMM is to medieval music what a library is to books: it collects the       objects and makes them generally available.
I know that sounds pretty       obvious, but in fact, melody is greatly underrated as a value object to be       collected, collated, protected and published.
The need for DIAMM will       never be extinguished - it can only grow as the web gradually fulfils its       role as our universal repository.
DIAMM already has its foot in the door.'
In a review in Early Music, Fabrice Fitch writes, `Facsimile editions of       early polyphonic sources are usually self-recommending, but the       long-awaited Eton Choirbook, the first fruits in hard copy of the Digital       Image Archive of Medieval Music (DIAMM), is especially welcome.
Magnus       Williamson's 85-page commentary, at once erudite and readable, is a mine       of valuable information' [ii].
Enhancing and Expanding Library and Archive Collections.
DIAMM has provided 80 archives worldwide with free delivery of       high-quality images of their music manuscripts (including the British       Library [iii]).
For such institutions, delivery of       their own images in a congenial medium, without cost to them, is a       considerable advantage.
The librarian Rijk Vriesinga of the Archiefservice       Frysl&#226;n (NL) [2] recently commented that `it is a       wonder that such a system exists'.
Libraries themselves are one of the       most important user groups accessing DIAMM: their collections are enhanced       by free, online access to DIAMM manuscripts, and references to their own       collections in RISM (R&#233;pertoire International des Sources Musicales) and       CMM (Corpus Mensurabilis Musicae) can now be accessed online.
DIAMM has       recently been invited to join and provide metadata for the Medieval       Electronic Scholarly Alliance [iv], a union catalogue       of partner collections including the British Library, the Courtauld       Institute and the Walters Art Museum.
Academic (researchers, students,       performers and teaching staff) and non-academic library users are now able       to access a wide range of resources in electronic format, some of which       were previously not available at all.
Technical consultancy, imaging, and protocols for other projects which         themselves have a non-academic impact.
DIAMM is a world leader in digital imaging of rare and delicate       documents, and has acted as consultant in Japan and the USA to projects of       international importance, such as the digitisation of the Dead Sea Scrolls       (alongside experts from NASA) [v].
DIAMM maintains the       facility to provide images for other cultural projects - several funded by       the AHRC such as The Production and Reading of Music Sources (Manchester)       and The Experience of Worship (Bangor) - and to carry out consultancy work       on behalf of institutions in Belgium, Spain, and Germany.
Robust technical       protocols (and DIAMM-trained technical staff) have been adopted by such       institutions as the Alamire Digital Lab (Alamire Foundation/KU Leuven,       Belgium) in the digitisation of the Vatican Library music collections[vi]:       this was described as `laying the groundwork for new developments in       international academic thought on the musical and art-historical patrimony       of the Low Countries', in the words of Bart Demuyt, director of the       Alamire Foundation [3].
Wolodymyr Smishkewych cites       pioneering work of DIAMM as a key influence, and states his intention to       draw on their expertise in his production of the online digital       photographic facsimile of the Lugo Codex [vii].
DIAMM has       therefore created new possibilities for the digitization and provision of       resources in myriad disciplines beyond musicology, and has encouraged new       approaches to the study of digital materials in the Humanities [viii].
Teaching and learning outside Oxford.
The DIAMM database and resources are increasingly used in a wide variety       of educational settings worldwide, particularly where users would not       otherwise have access to large manuscript collections.
In addition to its       use in the music curriculum, teachers have used DIAMM to communicate an       understanding of the culture of the Middle Ages.
As Alice Clark [4]       of Loyola University writes, `Our students are much more likely to be       unfamiliar with medieval culture, and this resource can help the Middle       Ages come alive for them.'
This may be the most crucial impact area for       DIAMM, since students attracted by the beauty, intricacy, and rarity of       these sources become more engaged with historical studies, enabling them       to appreciate more fully the achievements of their own and other cultures       - both historical and contemporary.
In this way DIAMM has fostered new       projects [ix], encouraged interdisciplinary study, and       reinforced the importance of understanding the multi-faceted nature of       cultural and historical research.
