     Impacts include the entry of precautionary recommendations into EC       coordinating action outcomes and right to know initiatives into       international nanotechnology standardisation.
These are set out in:     1.
The BSI Publicly Available Specification on the labelling of consumer       nano-products in print (see 5.1).
Continuing initiative on the production       of a joint European/International (CEN/ISO) standard, now imminent.
2.
The publication, of which Hunt is the lead author (See Hunt, Lynch,       Cassee et al, 2013) in the open access `Materials' journal which proposes       thirty-seven recommendations to the European Commission, many of which       Hunt had a hand in clarifying, and in integrating and writing the whole       document.
(Note: Recommendations from a Framework project are taken into       consideration by the EC, even though it rarely officially recognizes any       policy changes directly resulting.)
Among reports accepted by the EC is       Riediker, M., Lynch, I., Hunt, G., Berges, M., Byrne, H., Clift, M.,       Rothen-Rutishauser, B., Tran, L., Fernandes, T., Kuhlbusch, T., Dusinska,       M., Hart, D., Cassee, F (2012), NanoImpactNet: Final integrating         scientific report.
Available online:       http://www.nanoimpactnet.eu/index.php?page=reports.
Consultations include written evidence to House of Lords Science &amp;       Technology Select Committee, on `Nanotechnologies and Food', 2010,       official report published; Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution,       `Novel Materials in the Environment', 2008, providing evidence on       nano-pollution risk, official report published.
Non-academic publications include: `Nanotechnology Ethics', Materials         World 14(9) 2006: 36-37 in which Prof Hunt speculated about the       priority of ultra-strong lightweight materials for wind turbine blades,       which has now actually come to pass; with Nippress, K, `Report on       Nanotechnology and Airship Development, Airship: The Journal of the         Airship Association (Dec 2006) Issue 54, pp14-17, in which he       collaborated with an airship expert on the value of nanotechnology for new       airship design as an environmental priority; `The Labelling of       Nano-Products', CHEManager Europe, a trade magazine for chemical       engineers.
Hunt gave 26 invited lectures in the REF assessment period, in several EU       countries and in Japan, for audiences ranging through the professional,       scientific and academic to the secondary school level and general public.
E.g.
:     2008: Talk on nanotechnology risks at 'The Liability Crisis',       professional and business seminar, Lloyds of London, 20th May;     2008: `Nanomaterials: Is Measurement an Ethical Issue?
National Physical       Laboratory, Teddington, 9th July, about 70 scientists;     2009: Invited Keynote, `Complexity Theory &amp; Nanotechnology for       Cosmetics', (in collaboration with Dr Maxim Ponomarev of University of       Surrey), at AGM/General Assembly of European Cosmetics Association, Bled,       Slovenia, 28th May, about 100 participants;     2010: Keynote on `The Importance of Communicating REACH [regulations] and       Nanomaterials Issues to Stakeholders: Labelling,' at European Conference       on `Nanomaterials: Risks, Regulations and Rewards', Lyon, France, 8-10th       September, over 200 participants.
2010: Invited presentation at `High Level Conference on Nanosafety',       Prague, Czech Republic, under auspices of the British Embassy Prague, the       FP7 project NanoImpactNet, and Institute of Experimental Medicine of the       Czech Academy of Sciences, et al.
29-30th Nov, about 100 EU       participants     2010: Invited nano-ethics expert at Food Safety Authority (FSA) Citizens'       Forum on nanotechnology and food, Hotel Campanile, Birmingham, 9th       December.
2011: Lecture on `Nanosafety' at meeting on `Products, Privacy &amp;       People: Regulating at the Nanoscale', House of Lords, London, 28th       Feb., about 50 high level multi-stakeholder participants;     2011: Invited lecture on `High Hazard Safety: Costs and Ethics' at       workshop on `The Cost and Ethics of Safety', seminar organised jointly by       The Institution of Mechanical Engineers &amp; The Safety &amp; Reliability       Society, Manchester, 24th May;     2012: Invited Guest Lecture on `Intro to nanotechnology', at Charterhouse       School, Godalming, Surrey to higher level students, 9th Feb.     Hunt has been a lead or co-organiser of all relevant parts of Management       Committee meetings, communications and report integration for COST-FA0904       in the capacity of MC member and Chair of Work Package 4 on ethics,       dialogue and standardisation, with 280 members in 33 countries.
He has       organised or co-organised nine events, most importantly: Hosted and       organised at St Mary's University College the European Joint Technological       Seminar of FP7-NaPolyNet &amp; COST-FA0904 on `Polymer Nanomaterials For       Food Packaging: Characterization, Needs, Safety and Environmental Issues'       as Management Committee member and Chair of Work Package 4 Ethics,       Dialogue and Standardisation, with delegates from 17 countries, 1st-2nd       September 2010.
Leaders of, and scientific participants in, these wide-ranging       stakeholders have repeatedly informally given assurances that bringing a       conceptual and ethical dimension has a significant influence on them and       the projects (see Section 5).
