     General Impact.
The Goffee-Jones leadership framework has had a       large impact on practitioners.
Their 2000 article in the Harvard Business       Review won the McKinsey Foundation for Management Research award for the       best article published that year.
These awards are "judged by an       independent panel of leaders in the business community, recognize       outstanding works that are likely to have a major influence on the actions       of business managers worldwide."
The article features in the Harvard       Business School Press compilation of the ten `must read' articles on       leadership.
Audience Reach.
The work is also widely read.
A search on the       phrase Goffee and Jones "Why should anyone be led by you" reveals 95,000       hits (October 17, 2013).
As noted above in the evidence of quality, Why         Should Anyone Be Led by You?
What It Takes to Be an Authentic Leader       has sold over 100,000 copies and has been translated into seventeen       languages.
Specific Impacts.
Many organizations in both the public and       private sectors use the Goffee-Jones model to define leadership       competencies for talent management.
The remainder of this case study       documents the explicit use of the Goffee-Jones leadership model in a broad       range of applications, ranging across both the public and private sectors       and also across different industries.
The first two examples of impact are taken from the public sector.
Australian Public Service Commission.
The Goffee-Jones model is       used by the Strategic Centre for Leadership, Learning and Development of       the Australian Public Service Commission for its leadership development       strategy.
The centre was set up following the identification of a need to       enhance leadership development, talent management, and core skills       learning and development across the Australian Public Service.
The Goffee       and Jones model is in their leadership development strategy statement; a       link is provided in the list of corroboration sources.
Canadian Health Services Research Foundation.
A second       public-sector example is the use of the model in the final report by the       Canadian Health Services Research Foundation for the leadership capability       framework for healthcare in Canada.
A link to the October 2007 report, in       which the key book is cited, is provided in the corroboration sources.
Private companies actively use the Goffee-Jones model in defining their       leadership competencies.
Rob Goffee often achieves impact for his work       through consulting relationships: his clients have included       Anglo-American, Axa, Electronic Arts, Heineken, InterContinental Hotels,       KPMG, Legal &amp; General, MLIM, Nestle, &#180; Roche, Singapore Airlines, and       Unilever.
Roche.
This major pharmaceutical company engages in "developing       medicines and diagnostics that will help patients live longer, better       lives."
As well as using the Goffee-Jones framework (verified via the       corroboration sources) Roche was also involved in subsequent Goffee-Jones       research.
In the opening remarks to their paper "Leading Clever People       (Harvard Business Review, March 2007) Goffee and Jones quoted the (then)       Roche CEO and Chairman Franz Humer to motivate the need for "economies of       ideas."
This demonstrates that Roche entered into an interactive process,       where the beneficiaries of the research impact contribute to the research       process.
Nestl&#233;.
This business describes itself as "the world's leading       nutrition, health and wellness company."
It is well known for its large       portfolio of brands.
Rob Goffee has an ongoing relationship with them,       providing executive education based around his research in conjunction       with London Business School.
They actively implement Goffee-Jones in       defining leadership competencies.
The model is also the basis for management consultants' work with       corporations.
Blessing White.
This consulting firm has some of the leading       corporations in the world among its clients.
It uses the Goffee-Jones       model as the basis for their leadership development consulting practice.
On the day of the REF submission, for example, Blessing White is offering       an event "Why should anyone be led by you?"
in Mumbai, India.
The       programme description (a link is provided in the corroboratory sources)       explicitly bases this on the Goffee-Jones work.
Centre for Creative Leadership.
This consultancy specializes in       leadership.
It offers "an exclusive focus on leadership education and       research and unparalleled expertise in solving the leadership challenges       of individuals and organizations everywhere.
We equip clients around the       world with the skills and insight to achieve more than they thought       possible through creative leadership."
Finally, there is the impact on executive education.
Beyond LBS       activities, there is a significant impact on "in house" executive       education.
Northumbria University.
This higher education institution offers a       "Future Leaders Programme" (a link is provided) for "staff who are       identified as having the potential to achieve a senior leadership role .
.
. "
Its session on "managing self and leading others" bases itself on the       Goffee-Jones work.
National Health Service.
The United Kingdom's       NHS has an internal executive education function; their leadership       education features the Goffee-Jones work.
It is cited, for example, in a       recent paper which describes the underpinning research to their approach.
