     This case study is an example of impact in the area of health and welfare       in which educational       practice around the dissemination of responsible drinking messages has       been changed, and on       public policy and services whereby research evidence has stimulated policy       debate.
Specifically, a       5-year multi-million pound nationwide responsible drinking campaign       developed by the Drinkaware       Trust (Why let the good times go bad?
WLGTGB) was suspended a full       year early as a       consequence of our research.
Furthermore, our findings have demonstrably       influenced the future       direction of campaigns developed by the Drinkaware Trust, and shaped key       recommendations in       an independent review of Drinkaware's activities in this area.
Independent consultants commissioned by the University to explore the       impact of this research       established that the Chairman of Alcohol Research UK (1), on hearing of       the findings, discussed       them with several senior civil servants within the Department of Health       and, specifically, the       draftsman of The Government's Alcohol Strategy.
On becoming aware of the       research the CEO of       the Drinkaware Trust invited the research team to meet and discuss the       implications of the work       (2).
These findings were subsequently discussed by the Drinkaware Board at       their February 2013       meeting (3).
In addition, the CEO of Drinkaware has indicated that these       findings are directly       influencing future campaigns currently being developed by Drinkaware (4).
In parallel, and as a condition of Drinkaware's Memorandum of       Understanding with Government,       an independent review panel was formed, and was tasked with examining the       activities and       effectiveness of Drinkaware.
Submissions to the review panel were accepted       until 31st January       2013.
This panel was chaired by Sir Hugh Taylor (Chairman of the Guy's and       St Thomas' NHS       Foundation Trust and former Permanent Secretary at the Department of       Health) and comprised       senior members of relevant stakeholder organisations, including: the       Deputy Director of Alcohol       and Drugs, the DoH; the CEO of Ipsos MORI; Corporate Relations Director,       Heineken UK, and       Chairman of the Alcohol Health Alliance.
An independent consultancy,       23red, was commissioned       to coordinate this review.
The research team were contacted by email on       the 7th March 2013 (5) by       23red requesting permission to cite the findings of the evaluation study,       which had been submitted       to the review panel by the Alcohol Health Alliance UK (AHA).
The AHA       comprises a consortium of       medical bodies (e.g.
British Medical Association, the Royal Colleges of       GPs, Nursing, Physicians,       Psychiatrists and Surgeons) and alcohol/addiction charities (e.g.
Action       on Addiction, Alcohol       Concern, the Institute of Alcohol Studies, British Liver Trust, Alcohol       Focus Scotland, and the UK       Faculty of Public Health).
The findings of our research were also       submitted by the Drinkaware       Trust at the request of the independent review panel (5).
The results of       the independent review       were published on 17th April 2013 (6).
Key statements in the review demonstrate that our research had impact in       the following ways:     1) The effectiveness of the campaign was called in to question by       stakeholder respondents,       notably AHA UK (5), and the review authors, specifically:       "9.109 Most worryingly, the report of a study by London South Bank       University, submitted to       this review by two separate organisations in response to our call for       evidence, suggest that the       campaign may in fact, when used in situ, have the unintended consequence       of causing young       people to drink more."
p.61     2) The report authors also make a clear recommendation that the methods       used in our research       to test the effectiveness of the campaign should be used in future:       "9.113 ...the researchers have used an experimental methodology which we       believe may be       more likely to reflect true drinking behaviour than self-reported surveys.
We would suggest that       Drinkaware consider working with academics in this way both to understand       whether these       results are replicated and on the design of future studies."
p.62     3) The Drinkaware Trust suspended the WLGTGB campaign as a direct result       of the findings       disseminated to and discussed with them:       "9.114 We understand that Drinkaware has already suspended WLGTGB activity       and is       reviewing the approach in the light of this study" p.62     These comments made in the independent review led to the authors concluding     that:     "9.203...in order to develop more effective marketing and communications       in future       Drinkaware should:            Involve academics and experts more in strategic development and         evaluation       Implement changes to WLGTGB in light of recent research findings" p.79          These research findings have also had a wider impact and attracted the       attention of a number of       key stakeholder organisations, including Mentor UK and Public Health       England (7).
