     The impact described in this case study has been pursued via practice and       presentation.
Altorf has organised Socratic dialogues on such topics as       `What is learning?
', `Why should you respect someone's autonomy?
', `What       is my responsibility to my community?
', etc.
Most dialogues are held at       St. Mary's University College and are open to the general public.
She has       also facilitated dialogues in Amsterdam and Berlin.
Participants have       included lawyers, artists, and teachers.
Evidence of impact has been gathered in the form of spoken and written       feedback.
This feedback confirms the findings of the research.
People who       experience the method for the first time affirm that participating in a       dialogue is a new experience to them, incomparable to anything and       impossible to learn in any other way than by participating.
Many mention       the new insight that it is possible to entertain diverging views.
Thus,       people are surprised that `hugely different approaches were able to find       common ground to work from', or that `people were able to listen to one       another and not argue'.
People also comment on the fact that it was not       necessary to find an answer (`outcome') to the philosophical question       posed.
They question the use of experience, and understand that each       dialogue is different, and that this kind of dialogue cannot be       standardised into a product.
It should be noted that Socratic Dialogues       are being `sold' to companies.
The practice is not without controversy.
(See for instance J. Kessels (1997).
Socrates op de markt: Filosofie in       bedrijf.
Amsterdam: Boom).
The feedback thus suggests that as a direct       result of participating in a Socratic Dialogue participants acquire       awareness of a new way of dialogue, that challenges the limitations of a       model of argument based on competition and result.
The potential for       conflict resolution is a topic of future research, and possibly impact.
Interest is also expressed in the method.
At the end of every dialogue, as       well as at selected moments throughout the dialogues, participants will       engage in a meta-dialogue, which considers not the content, but the nature       of the dialogue.
Questionnaire questions include: `What did you like best       about the day?
', `What surprised you?
', etc.
as well as open ended       questions for any further comments.
Because of the requirements of the dialogue, numbers are limited.
Dialogues have been held on the following dates: November 2010       (afternoon), March 2011 (day long dialogue), September 2012 (two day       dialogue), June 2013 (day long dialogue).
In addition, dialogues have been       facilitated at other locations on request: Amsterdam (March 2012), Berlin       (July 2013).
The method has also been used in the undergraduate module       `Philosophy in Schools and the Community' at St. Mary's University       College.
The topic of the module concerns philosophy with children, where       students were taught to teach philosophy to primary school children and to       reflect on this practice.
Thus, ideas from this research were brought to       the school yard.
This module ran for the first time in Spring 2013, in       collaboration with the Philosophy Foundation.
The reach of the impact has been widened by presenting findings orally       and in written form.
Presentations were given in Glasgow (2012, by       invitation) at a conference of the Public Philosophy Network in Washington       (2011), at the last conference of the Subject Centre for Philosophical and       Religious Studies (2011), at the Joint Session (2011), and the London       Conference in Critical Thought (2013).
The written presentations are       listed above as Altorf (2011b) and Altorf (2013).
Findings have also been       presented in non-academic resources such as an open web resource (M.       Altorf (2011), `Socrates, Apologie'.
Humanistische Canon       [http://www.humanistischecanon.nl/logos_paideia/socrates])       and an article in a Dutch national newspaper (M. Altorf (2012), `De       retoriek van Kerst'.
NRC Handelsblad 24 September 2012.)
The spoken and written presentations have had the widest reach.
For       instance, Altorf (2011b) has been consulted by people from different       countries, ranging from Ghana to the United States, Australia and South       Africa, and is viewed on average every other day.
The paper presentations       were attended by international audiences between 15 and 45 people, of       academics and political activists, some of whom are now following Altorf       on academia.edu.
The text in Discourse has been distributed to all       universities in the United Kingdom.
Its online version received a number       of hits.
(95 hits since the closure of the Subject Centre in July 2011.
No       numbers available for the period preceding.)
The open resource on The       Apology received 3942 hits, of which 3303 unique visitors.
NRC Handelsblad       has 203,000 readers.
Visitor figures for the digital edition are not       available.
