     Three key pieces of evidence demonstrate the impact of Markides's       research.
Reach via Executive-Audience Books.
The first item of evidence is       the large volume of sales of       the three books we have listed above.
All the Right Moves has sold       more than 32,000 copies;       Game-Changing Strategies has sold 12,000 copies; and Fast         Second has sold 15,000 copies.
The general impact of his work is also evidence by his regular appearance       on the management       guru list Thinkers 50.
He also appeared on MBA Ranking's "fifty       most influential professors, 2013."
Implementation in Corporate Practice.
The second item of evidence       is the substantial impact that       this work has had on corporate practice.
Costas Markides's ideas on       business model innovation       have been used by several companies (such as Nestl&#233;, If Insurance, and       Roche) to anchor their       transformational executive education programmes.
The Markides corporate practice impact started with the pioneering       application of his ideas in Sara       Lee Douwe Egberts to develop and market a radical new product in the       coffee market: Senseo (a       capsule system for coffee making) is now a dominant product in Germany and       Holland.
Markides's ideas have been used by many companies ranging from the       fashion conglomerate       LVMH (Moet&#168; Chandon &#183; Louis Vuitton) to the pharmaceutical giant       Roche; these relationships       overlap with another LBS connection, since the same clients enjoy impact       from the work of LBS       Professor Rob Goffee's work on leadership.
Turning back to the Markides       work, these companies consider innovation to be a source of sustained       competitive advantage; see for example       (for LVMH)www.lvmh.com/the-group/lvmh-group/group-mission-and-values and       (for Roche)       www.roche.com/valueofinnovation.htm#/1 for descriptions of this     To influence an attribute that these businesses consider to be key to       their continued success       should be considered as significant impact.
It is therefore noteworthy       that these companies have       taken on the central idea in Markides's work that the inventor of the       product is not the one that       captures the mass market and, with his help, designed processes and       structures to identify innovative       products by other companies, acquire them, and use their capabilities to       scale them up.
In       other words, the companies have been influenced by Markides's work and       structured themselves       to be the "first second mover."
Markides's work has been credited with changing the mindsets of senior       executives in LVMH and       Roche to one where they do not believe that they need to invent       everything.
Instead, they look       for innovative products and solutions that outsiders have discovered which       can then be scaled       up using their own complementary assets (such as access to distribution       channels or consumer       knowledge that allows them to segment the market).
The organizations are       now designed to scour       for and identify innovations in related products and services which can be       successfully internalized       and scaled up; they do this, for instance, through investing in many       startups that are working on       products somewhat related to their lines of business.
A specific example of his impact at Roche was their use of outsiders to       solve some intractable       research-and-development problems in 2009.
Tod Bedilion (Senior Director,       Diagnostic Biomarkers)       said: "we solved in 60 days what our own R-and-D was trying to do in 2       years .
.
. "
Industry Communication.
The third item of impact evidence is from       the repeated invitations he       receives from companies and industry groups to talk about this work.
As noted in section 2, transformation to a successful "fast second"       company requires a change       in mindset and organizational culture.
Companies and their leaders who       have been influenced       by Markides's work have therefore taken to calling on Markides to present       his work to senior       executives as part of their transformational efforts.
His ideas on       business model innovation have       been used by several companies (such as Zurich Financial Services, LVMH,       Nestle, &#180; If Insurance,       and Roche) to anchor their transformational executive education       programmes.
Markides is seen       as the key resource to develop and teach executive workshops for their       employees on how to       enhance their innovation capabilities in general and how to become "fast       second" companies.
Markides also has given hundreds of Keynote speeches at industry and       company conferences.
He is also a regular participant and presenter at the World Economic Forum       where he presented       in 1999, 2002, 2003, 2012 and 2013.
