     Jones's bioethical research has helped inform and shape thinking in the       Catholic community and other faith communities; that of legislators,       regulators and healthcare professionals; and thus has had a significant       impact on those who access healthcare services or who support those who       do.
Jones has engaged widely with audiences outside the academy.
He has       given over 100 talks unconnected to any higher educational programme since       January 2008 (to medical professionals, to Church groups and at interfaith       events, to sixth form students, as well as open lectures for members of       the public).
In the same period, Jones wrote 27 articles for wider       audiences, both religious (for example in The Tablet; The         Pastoral Review; or Faith Today) and secular (for example in       BioNews; Bioedge; or The Times Higher Education).
During this period Jones has also authored 26 responses to consultations       by parliament, regulatory or professional bodies and other organisations       and on nine occasions has spoken in parliament and/or given oral evidence       to parliamentary committees.
Jones has also authored a number of public letters, for example, one       signed by 26 bioethicists from around Europe on the patentability of human       embryo research (Nature 30 June 2011).
Jones has also appeared on       numerous occasions in the national media (for example on Newsnight, the       Today programme, Beyond Belief) and has been cited in debates in       parliament, for example in the closing speech of the debate on the human       fertilisation and embryology bill (22 Oct 2008: Hansard Column 411).
Since       2009 he has also been Vice-Chair of the MoD Research Ethics Committee.
Three times in this period, guidance drafted by Jones has been sent to       every Catholic parish in England and Wales (over 2,500 parishes).
There is       evidence that this encouraged participation in public policy, for example,       in the Crown Prosecution Service consultation on assisted suicide, in that       (1) the number of responses in that consultation was unusually high (over       four thousand) despite the complexity of the consultation document (2) the       pattern of Yes/No answers most commonly adopted was that advocated in       Jones's guidance, and (3) the most common suggestion by the public was one       highlighted in Jones's guidance.
In relation to end-of-life care, Jones undertook `the lion's share of the       drafting' of The Mental Capacity Act &amp; `Living Wills': A practical         Guide for Catholics (2008) for the Department of Christian       Responsibility and Citizenship of the Catholic Bishops Conference of       England and Wales, at their request: and helped draft A Practical         Guide to the Spiritual Care of the Dying Person (2010).
These       booklets are available online and have been widely distributed especially       through hospital chaplaincies.
The Spiritual Care of the Dying Person       has also been translated into Italian and Spanish.
Jones also helped draft the General Medical Council guidance Treatment         and Care Towards the End of Life (2010).
Jones's influence on this       guidance, though real, is not easy to quantify, being one member of a       working group, but the impact of the guidance is significant.
The GMC sets       the standards to which all doctors in the United Kingdom must adhere.
An example of impact that is more quantifiable is Jones's involvement in       the revision of the Interim Policy for Prosecutors in Respect of Cases of       Encouraging or Assisting Suicide.
Jones was principal author of a       submission to the Crown Prosecution Service which both analysed the       Interim Policy and suggested specific changes.
The submission was       discussed and agreed by all the Catholic bishops of England and Wales and       was sent to all Catholic parishes.
The submission emphasised that the life       of all citizens merited the same degree of respect and protection by law       irrespective of whether they are disabled or terminally ill. During the       consultation period Jones, together with Archbishop Peter Smith, met       privately with Kier Starmer QC, the Director of Public Prosecutions, and       Jones subsequently engaged in an email correspondence with a member of       staff at the CPS to clarify the ethical issues at stake.
The final policy       accepted all of the proposed changes in the bishops' submission.
This can       be verified by a comparison of the Interim Policy, the bishops'       submission, and the Final Policy.
Another issue where Jones's research has had a major impact is the       controversy surrounding the Liverpool Care Pathway for the Dying Patient       (LCP).
Jones has been a member of the LCP's National Reference Group from       2009 and his ethical analysis of the LCP was cited in a parliamentary       debate on the issue (8 Jan 2013: Hansard Column 47WH).
At the request of       the Department of Christian Responsibility, Jones prepared a substantial       submission (18,000 words and 150 footnotes) for the Independent Review of       the LCP.
Baroness Julia Neuberger, the chair of that review, found the       submission `a really thoughtful and detailed analysis of ethical issues'.
She invited Jones to meet with members of the Review panel and later       revealed that, `Prof Jones's submission was among several that were       particularly helpful to us in reaching our conclusions'.
The Independent Review made wide ranging recommendations, including the       replacement of the LCP, recommendations accepted by the government, the       Royal Colleges, the Care Quality Commission, the new Chief Inspector of       Hospitals, the regulatory bodies for healthcare professionals and other       interested parties.
These recommendations are already starting to have a       major impact on care of the dying in England.
