     Prior to the beginning of the Portus Project, the site was known only to       archaeological authorities and a small group of academics.
Research led by       the University of Southampton has introduced new global audiences to the       heritage site, raising public awareness of Classical history in general.
Project website www.portusproject.org       receives c. 1,000 unique visitors monthly.
From 2009 there has been an       increase in visits to the site from Italian schoolchildren and staff, and       students from Rome-based foreign academies and European and US       universities.
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill made a visit       to Portus the centrepiece of a course funded by the National Endowment for       the Humanities (2012).
A press strategy based around two five-month       campaigns in 2009 and 2011 was key, culminating in international press       conferences at Portus and extensive coverage across international       broadcast and print media, including all UK and Italian broadsheets, BBC,       CNN, The Economist and specialist magazines like Current World Archaeology       (http://www.portusproject.org/online-presence/).
In December 2012, BBC1 screened a major documentary (co-financed by       Discovery US) Rome's Lost Empire, with Southampton's excavation,       geophysics and CGI-modelling work featuring prominently.
It reached an       audience of 4.23 million in the UK.
Director Jeff Wilkinson [5.4]       wrote: "The important discoveries (Professor Keay and his team) have made       at Portus played a key role in generating the excellent viewer figures for       the programme, and therefore in benefitting the BBC."
The BBC is planning       another similar programme.
It was also screened by France 5, attracting       1.1million viewers, and in the EU and US in early 2013.
Between 2010 and       2012 Keay was approached by several European TV companies, including RAI1       (the flagship station of Italy's national public service broadcaster),       RAI3, Discovery and RTE, and his insights were used in narrative       programmes about Portus and the Roman world.
The Portus Project was       selected as the pilot study for the EU-funded Heritage Portal website www.heritageportal.eu, a       free online resource that disseminates good practice to cultural heritage       practitioners.
Portus' popularity as a tourist destination has risen.
Some specialist UK       tourist companies, notably Swan Hellenic Cruises (2010, 2013), have placed       Portus on their itineraries, thereby deriving economic benefit from this       work.
In 2013 the International Airport of Fiumicino and SSBAR began a       collaboration to open up the site to the large numbers of travellers       passing through, while the Autorit&#224; del Litorale Romano, Fiumicino       Airport, Comune and the SSBSAR are planning to open the site to passing       cruise and air passengers and local school children in the next couple of       years.
The SSBAR has benefitted from the researchers' experience in integrating       a research project within the management framework of a high-profile site,       new methodologies and presentation of results [5.5], with the       Director General of Antiquities citing it as having "... had considerable       scientific impact ... reinforcing the documentation that illustrates the       importance of the site and also serves to inform its management" [5.1,         5.2].
The SSBAR provided &#163;170,000 in 2011 for further excavation by       the Portus research team, with c. &#163;80,000 in 2012 and 2013.
In 2013 it       commissioned the development of an official website for the Portus site       that will be linked to a website which showcases the ancient river port of       Rome.
In 2011, Keay addressed a conference [3.8] of leading archaeological       heritage practitioners in Rome in order to share strategies in       computerised on-site recording, data archiving, retrieval and linkages       that could be applied to other heritage sites.
The AHRC has been another major beneficiary.
Following media coverage in       2011, Keay was asked to address the AHRC Council to support its efforts to       convince the UK government of the merits of continuing to fund large       multi-year projects like the Portus Project.
It was used as an AHRC impact       case study (2012), a Knowledge Exchange Partnership case study (2012) and       was cited by CEO Rick Rylance (2013) in a video to launch the AHRC's       research strategy for 2013-2018.
Rylance said: "The great Portus Project       ... reveals the potential of collaborative organisation across nations and       across different sorts of disciplines..." [5.3].
Further research has been supported through grants totalling over       &#163;1million from the EPSRC, AHRC, JISC and Microsoft Research in IT-based       areas involving Earl.
Building on initiatives based around the       achievements and experiences of Portus, or employing it as a key       component, these projects have been used to demonstrate the potential of       multidisciplinary research to bridge humanities and computing.
An initial       collaboration with Microsoft Research in High Performance Computing has       led to a further four ongoing collaborations at Portus, each of which is       focused on the development of new hardware and software tools that can be       applied further afield.
