     The impact of the research is both national and international, informing       the maritime research strategy of English Heritage; enabling offshore       industries to make more informed decisions; shaping heritage protection       legislation in Uruguay; and establishing a unique new centre for training       and education in Egypt.
English Heritage Research Agenda     Commissioned by English Heritage, People and the Sea: A Maritime         Archaeological Research Agenda for England articulates the       definitive position on the maritime environment in England and underpins       the next decade of archaeological research.
The first document of its       kind, it has taken English Heritage from a reactive position to a       proactive one, allowing them to establish gaps in knowledge to determine       future research themes.
For Barney Sloane, Head of Strategic Planning and       Management Division at English Heritage, it "... is guiding our curatorial       decision-making and informing our advice on casework and research..."       [5.1].
Submerged Landscapes     Sturt and Dix's work on the English Heritage-funded Regional       Environmental Characterisation project (2009) has contributed to new       methodologies for quantifying the offshore heritage resource.
Dr Ian       Oxley, Head of Marine Archaeology at English Heritage, said: "Over the       last two decades the University of Southampton group has led the way in       the use of high resolution geophysics for the imaging and interpretation       of a range of archaeological sites... English Heritage has called on this       expertise frequently over this period..." [5.2].
This work included preparing the first user-orientated, online dataset to       aid marine planning and development, which has been accessed by offshore       companies including environmental and engineering consultancy firms AMEC       Ltd (FTSE 100 company, offices in 40 countries) and Ramboll Ltd (190       offices, 21 countries).
This approach was adopted in development projects off the southern and       eastern UK coastline and on the Humber River, promoting significantly       streamlined data acquisition and evaluation practices for the marine       renewables and aggregate industries with regard to heritage and the       environment.
Besides the obvious reduced cost implications for government       and industry, underwater cultural heritage is significantly less       threatened by its implementation.
These principles have been applied to environmental impact assessments       for major UK infrastructure projects via subsequent consultancy work by       Sturt and Dix with AMEC (for client EDF), leading to the redevelopment of       nuclear power stations (Hinkley Point 2010-2013 and Sizewell 2010-ongoing)       [5.3] and with Ramboll on the construction of the largest UK offshore       windfarm (the London Array, comprising energy companies Dong Energy, EoN       and UAE-based Masdar, 2008-present) [5.4].
Dix and Sturt also provided       marine archaeological support to the GLO-1 telecommunication cable system       which runs between Nigeria and the UK.
According to Associate Director       AMEC Sean Steadman "The success has been such that we are spinning out the       approach to projects not just in the UK but across our global company"       [5.5], while Ramboll said: "The... approach to archaeological analysis of       geophysical, geotechnical and material cultural data... has proven to be       innovative and highly effective."
[5.6]     Uruguay Maritime Archaeology Programme (UMAP)     The UMAP project led the Uruguayan Heritage Commission (UHC) to reshape       its legislative framework, which directly informs current Uruguayan       government policy.
The Historic Environment Record is now run by the UHC;       a new law was passed in 2006 [5.7] effectively banning treasure hunting       and stipulating that further shipwreck investigations must be carried out       in accordance with archaeological principles.
The impact is still felt       today, according to Dr Alberto Quintela, Director of Cultural Heritage       Commission, Ministry of Education and Culture in Uruguay.
"It has had a       long-lasting effect on the ways in which Uruguay now approaches the       management of the subject matter ...
It is our hope that what started in       2005 with UMAP continues to move Uruguay towards being a foremost example       of international cooperation and best practice in cultural heritage       management."
[5.8]     Lake Mareotis Research Project (LMRP)     The collaboration established through the LMRP generated an innovative       educational and capacity-building project funded largely by an EU Tempus       Culture and Education fund secured by Blue (2007).
The Tempus Project       led to the establishment of the Centre for Maritime Archaeology and       Underwater Cultural Heritage (CMAUCH) within the University of Alexandria,       Egypt in 2009.
CMAUCH is the first centre of its kind in the African-Arab       world, enabling the training and education of 50 students to date in       maritime archaeology and coastal heritage management.
CMAUCH organised an international maritime archaeology and underwater       cultural heritage training workshop and conference in Alexandria in 2010,       which Southampton's CMA led.
Participants from 15 countries contributed to       the conference and 15 participants from six countries attended the       workshop.
Many of these students now work in antiquities ministries in the       region, adding significantly to the reach of maritime archaeological       awareness within government.
Dr Khalil, Director of CMAUCH: "The workshop       helped them [the students] a lot in their workplace and to secure jobs in       heritage"[5.9].
The research has prompted further collaboration between       CMAUCH and the University of Southampton including an international UNESCO       initiative designed to foster underwater archaeology, research and       capacity building.
Dr Khalil: "The CMAUCH is the only one of its kind in       the region...
Since its inception we have had excellent collaboration with       your institution.
The centre is currently running successfully with 33       students being taught at different levels (Master/Diploma).
We are also       very optimistic about our new initiative, the UNESCO UniTwin Network in       Underwater Archaeology..." [5.10].
