     The automated zone design procedure developed at Southampton led to the       creation of an entirely       new nested hierarchy of small areas known as output areas (OAs) covering       England, Wales and       Northern Ireland that have become the standard for publication of official       statistics including 2001       and 2011 census results and neighbourhood statistics service [5.1],       [5.2].
They overcome many of       the shortcomings of previous approaches and enable geographical       comparability between       successive censuses for the first time in modern history in England and       Wales.
Using this       research, the minimum set of areas requiring redesign has been       analytically identified and       resolved, resulting in changes to only 2.6% of OAs for 2011.
This       stability has wide-ranging       benefits for data users, including those involved in resource allocations       from central to local       government, the planning and delivery of services such as housing,       education, health and       transport, and business planning and marketing, ultimately benefitting all       56.1 million residents of       England and Wales.
The 2011 census white paper identified as a "key       strength" of the Census its       "...ability to generate statistics about very small areas and groups of       people (as is necessary to       ensure that public policies take account of the needs of local communities       when formulating       policy)" [5.3, para 6.7].
ONS strongly commended the OA geography in its formal 2011 census       evaluation [5.4] and       following public consultation and reviews from 2007-2010, decided to       retain the OA geography as       the basis for the 2011 census.
In addition, the research team were invited       to develop an entirely       new system of workplace zones for the reporting of census workplace       population data.
Using our       AZTool software, ONS published 2011 output area boundaries in October 2012       and workplace       zones in January 2013.
Our research has directly informed wider policy relating to area design,       through Martin's       membership of several key advisory boards including the UK Census Design       and Methodology       Committee, OA Review Panel and the 2011 Census High-Level Quality       Assurance Panel.
His       expertise has also been called upon to inform evaluation of potential       future alternatives to the       census, being called to present oral evidence to the House of Commons       Treasury Sub-Committee       2008 inquiry "Counting the Population" [5.5] and Cabinet Office       round table meeting in November       2010.
These led directly to the launch and direction of the &#163;25m ONS       "Beyond 2011" Programme       to evaluate potential alternatives to a 2021 census.
The impact of our       work is emphasised by the       Director General of ONS [5.6].
As well as its direct influence on the reporting of UK official       statistics, Southampton's research has       on-going benefits for data users.
In addition to meeting statistical and       geographical requirements       for disclosure control and regarding the size and homogeneity of the       population in each area, the       system of OAs is designed with the users' needs in mind.
For instance, OAs       are uniformly-sized       small areas built from, and strongly aligned to, postcode geographies,       reflecting the ways in which       many users (from local authorities to private companies) categorise their       own data.
OAs have       formed the basis for entirely new data products and user communities, such       as the 2001 OA       Classification (OAC) [5.7] and its user group, currently       comprising 288 organisations across central       and local government, businesses and academia.
A 2011 version of OAC is       now in production.
The Super Output Areas (SOAs) resulting from this research form the basis       for aggregation and       publication of data in the government's Neighbourhood Statistics Service       and are integral to many       area-based policy initiatives, for example Communities and Local       Government's (CLG) Working       Neighbourhoods Fund allocations.
In 2004, 2007 and 2010 CLG's Indices of       Deprivation [5.8] were       based on the SOAs, permitting the first direct analysis of changes in       deprivation over time for       nationally consistent geographical areas.
There has been international use of the research and AZTool software; for       instance, it has now       been implemented by the Australian Bureau of Statistics [5.9] to       generate their 2011 Area       Sampling Frame, a system of geographical areas to be used for the next       five years as the basis for       Monthly Population Surveys and Special Social Surveys.
By making the       AZTool software freely       available online, benefits have been extended to wider work on official       statistics, geographical       aggregation problems and applied areas such as public health.
Around 25       research groups in ten       countries have downloaded the software and reported their usage, including       other national       statistical organizations such as Statistics New Zealand [5.10].
Overall, this research has been of unique significance for the production       and analysis of UK official       statistics, providing the framework for local policy decisions and       resource allocation.
It has       substantial international reach, including adoption and evaluation by       overseas statistical agencies.
