     Dreyfus' and Higginbottom's early performance research - particularly the       restoration of lost       works and parts of works, the recreation of historical performance       techniques, and the       communication of early music to a contemporary audience - has contributed       to the increased       accessibility of the early music repertoire, and thus to an enhanced       public understanding of this       important part of English and European musical heritage.
Their research       has brought previously       inaccessible works back into the public realm, interpreting them for       modern audiences, and       generating cultural capital to benefit current and future generations.
Research outputs achieve impact through live performances, radio and       television appearances,       specialist CD recordings, and online webcasts.
Since 2008, Phantasm have       released three       recordings of rarely performed consort music by William Lawes, William       Byrd, and John Ward, and       have given live performances of these and other select repertories across       the UK and Europe, and       additionally in Hong Kong.
Amazon UK reviews are overwhelmingly positive [i].
Stephen Churley       (27 June 2012) gave the William Lawes CD 5 out of 5 stars and wrote, "This       CD contains       essentially Lawes's greatest works and the performances are stunning.
Phantasm handle the       complex textures of the 5 and 6 part consorts, which can sound muddy in       the wrong hands,       brilliantly [...] In his sleeve notes Laurence Dreyfus gives an insightful       personal commentary on       each piece which enhances the listening pleasure of the music.
The       recording is also excellent [...]       This is a real corker of a disc that ought to win awards.
Buy it!"
Another       reviewer commented,       "Phantasm is a great ensemble and this is a remarkable disc.
Hitherto       unfamiliar with William       Lawes, I found this a persuasive introduction.
The copious `notes for the       perplexed' in the booklet       explain things very clearly".
Concerts and recitals by Phantasm often       include a pre-performance or       interval talk by Dreyfus designed to increase the audience's appreciation       of the programme and       their understanding of the works being performed.
A Phantasm performance       of Dowland and       Lawes (with organist Daniel Hyde and lutenist Elizabeth Kenny) at London's       Wigmore Hall on 6       June 2012 was broadcast live on BBC Radio 3 with commentary by BBC       presenter Catherine Bott.
It was simultaneously broadcast by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU)       to 1.7 million listeners       [ii].
The broadcast included a pre-recorded interview with Dreyfus       heard during the interval and was       very well received [see &#167;5.1].
The New College Choir has released 13 CDs since 2008 and broadcasts       regularly to large       audiences on BBC Radio 3 (e.g.
the programme of sacred French music for       the Baroque Spring       series in March 2013) and Classic FM (e.g.
appearing in the their Hall of       Fame Favourites, The Full       Works Concert - Wednesday 3 April 2013 [iii]),       enhancing and enriching public understanding of       early music.
The Choir recently featured in Oxford in Voice, a web       series examining the city and       university's choral tradition, which included interviews with Edward       Higginbottom, footage of the       Choir, and accompanying music taken from recent Evensongs [iv].
New College Choir was the first       in Oxford to launch regular webcasts of choral services [v].
Each week, one service is selected for       webcasting, and is available shortly after the service takes place.
With       an average of 30,000 hits       per annum, the webcasts have successfully extended audiences beyond the       chapel walls, to       musicians and enthusiastic listeners internationally.
Webcast listeners       take part in a `live' service:       not a studio recording of a concert, but the daily liturgy offered as part       of the chapel's tradition of       Christian worship.
Post-production editing means that the listener is       presented not only with the       appropriate sound, but the details of the music and readings for each       service: when the choir is       singing full tilt the sound engineers are able to raise the microphones       higher within the roof space,       to descend again for the more intimate polyphonic repertoire.
The webcasts       page of the New       College Choir website has been shared on Facebook 652 times, on Twitter 64       times and 164       times[v] via other social media platforms, further       demonstrating the popularity of these       performances with the general public.
Twitter comments reveal the impact       of performances:       @etnobofin (7/6/09, Paris) tweeted "New College Choir nailed Wesley's       "Ascribe unto the Lord"       tonight at evensong.
Beautiful and magnificent as usual."
The creation of New College Choir's record label, Novum, in 2010,       has permitted greater       freedom in the choice of recorded repertory, focusing on research-led       projects with substantial       accompanying materials (essay booklets and web pages).
This venture has       also represented an       innovative social enterprise, entailing a vigorous search for funds to       support the recordings, none       of which would otherwise be commercially viable.
Since inauguration, over       &#163;100,000 has been       raised, resulting in 11 releases, including a world premiere of Motets         choisis composed by       Fran&#231;ois Couperin.
BBC Music Magazine wrote of the Ludford disc that       `Scrupulous scholarship,       masterful conducting and committed singing merge to restore the legacy of       one of England's most       inventive 16th-century composers' [vi].
The commercial       impact of such projects has sustained the       first-ever recording of repertoire reconstructed from manuscript sources       by Higginbottom, with       ongoing benefits to listeners and professional practitioners.
One listener       tweeted "Might have       blown out my car speakers listening to new college choir CD a little too       loud.
Totally worth it."
(@ajwms 21/6/10, Knoxville, TN).
New College Choir performances also positively impact on different groups       in the local       community.
Webcasts of evensong are now being played to patients in the       Oxford hospitals.
"Choir         revives 16th century custom" http://tinyurl.com/od7dp6" (@oxon):       this tweet refers to a tradition of       performance at Bartlemas chapel in Cowley, a socially-mixed area of east       Oxford, that New       College Choir reinstated after a 400 year gap, demonstrating one of the       ways they engage local       communities and people from different social settings with early choral       music.
Jane Harrison,       Project Officer for the East Oxford Archaeological Project, said: "It is       very exciting that New       College is experimenting with bringing back this wonderful historical       tradition.
The closure of       Magdalen bridge on May Day means those living in east Oxford feel excluded       from the city's       celebrations.
This is something special for our community."
[2]     The tourism industry makes a huge contribution to economic prosperity in       the city of Oxford       (tourism-related expenditure in 2011 was &#163;1,7bn, with 11% spent on       entertainment/attractions).
Visitors to the University play no small part in this: 'Oxford University       estimates that the university       alone attracts more than nine million tourists to the city, resulting in a       combined spend of &#163;589m       and supporting 13,700 local jobs.'
[vii] Both Phantasm       and New College Choir have made       significant contributions to generating tourism income for the city.
Tourists and other visitors are       welcome to attend evensong services, and New College is among the most       popular, attracting over       60,000 visitors a year to the 150 public services (average weekly       attendance is 400-500 people       with substantially larger numbers at Advent, Christmas, and Easter).
The       central focus of these       services is liturgical worship, but the research component of the       performance is no less significant:       the services provide the audiences with participatory experience of       working with historical texts and       materials in a ritual context that engages and benefits a community of       listeners well beyond the       academic environment.
Phantasm performs regularly to public audiences in       Oxford, e.g.
in the       Holywell Music Room, Magdalen, Brasenose and All Souls' Colleges.
`The       Divine Office' brought       200 tourists to Oxford for an intensive week of concerts and lectures held       at Oxford University (26       Sept. 2012), with each tourist paying up to &#163;3000 to Martin Randall Travel       (commercial travel       company who specialise in expert-led cultural tours) to hear cutting-edge       groups in various intimate       Oxford College Chapel settings, including performances by Phantasm in       Magdalen and by New       College Choir.
Feedback points to the transformative impact of the       performances upon listeners       and the promotion of a high-quality tourist experience within the cultural       sphere.
A Canadian tourist       wrote: `an incomparable musical experience that exceeded all       expectations.'
Another testimonial       from the UK states: `I doubt I will ever again have such an educational       and aesthetic experience.
To say "I was there" at the Divine Office is something I shall treasure.'
[viii].
Another important impact from Dreyfus and Higginbottom's Early       Performance research is the       ongoing practical and theoretical education for international       instrumentalists and singers.
In       February 2013, Phantasm participated in the Hong Kong International Arts       Festival [ix], giving two       performances, an outreach lecture-recital on English Consort Music       delivered to c. 600 Hong Kong       teenagers, a master class on viol and consort technique delivered to music       students and staff at       the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts (HKAPA), and a lecture by       Laurence Dreyfus       (entitled `Beyond the Interpretation of Music') on the musicological       research underpinning both the       historical and engaged subjectivity of Phantasm's performance work.
One       striking indication of the       impact of Phantasm's performances was the receptivity of audiences - young       and old - to the       clarity of texture and `democratic' distribution of the part-writing.
By       gaining a keener sense of the       rhythmic and metric independence of parts, through Phantasm's master       classes at HKAPA,       players learnt that they needed to approach their own lines with greater       vigour and commitment.
The combination of the outreach event and the teaching worked well in this       key Asian location with       teachers reporting this as the first time students had heard period       instruments live [3].
The HKAPA       lecture was delivered to invited students and staff from neighbouring       institutions, Chinese Baptist       University and the University of Hong Kong, and resulting questions       productively explored aspects       of Phantasm's approach by interrogating the relation between programme       notes and performance       style at the Festival concerts.
New College Choir also benefits       international groups and individual       choral directors, who come to observe the group's research-led work.
During 2011-2, visitors came       from Alsace-Lorraine, Luxembourg, France, and the USA.
