     The application of fluvial geomorphology has changed the approach of       river authorities around the world to the management and restoration of       waterways, in part as a result of 20 years of research led by Professor       Sear, which began in the early 1990s when he developed new methods and       quantified the fiscal and environmental costs of sediment management to       the UK economy.
River management agencies and environmental engineering       consultants now routinely apply tools and training he and his co-authors       developed for the scoping, assessment and planning of river restoration       and river management projects [5.1-5.3], resulting in the creation       of a new employment market for graduates with geomorphological training [5.3].
River restoration is a &#163;billion global industry and the main river       management tool for redressing the impacts of human modification of       rivers.
Sear's pioneering research in this area has helped support the UK       River Restoration Centre (RRC) via his role as Director (currently       Associate Director) [5.1], when he was instrumental in setting up       the annual RRC conference which attracts international practitioners and       scientists in river restoration and is a key industry KE event [5.1].
Southampton research has led to the development of tools like Fluvial       Audits, guidebooks and E-learning training packages, all of which are       currently shaping the river management policy and practice of the       Environment Agency [5.3], Natural England [5.5] and the       Scottish Environment Protection Agency [5.6].
The Guidebook of       Applied Fluvial Geomorphology (2003; 2010) has become the default       reference on geomorphology within the organisations mentioned above [5.1-5.3].
Alongside the production of these tools, geomorphological research at       Geography &amp; Environment at Southampton has been used to underpin the       Environment Agency (EA) and Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA)       policy and guidance on sediment management [5.7-5.9] which is used       on a routine basis to support engineering and river restoration practices       [5.2,5.3,5.5].
Direct knowledge transfer from this research into       industry has been supported via training to more than 100 EA staff [5.2],       which has influenced operational practice [5.3-5.4].
Most recently       (2012-13), this has involved training of 120 EA staff in Hydromorphology [5.3],       whilst the E-learning modules have been taken by over 500 river managers       and consultants in the UK and abroad [5.2].
The Fluvial Audit methods developed by Sear and his colleagues in GeoData       have been adopted by all the key commercial environmental consultancies       like Jacobs, Halcrow and Atkins [5.1-5.2] and have been used to       guide strategic and operational river management and restoration projects       on more than 70 rivers across the UK, in the United States and Asia (e.g.
Goswami).
The method was an integral part of the first international       demonstration river restoration site on the River Cole at Coleshill (UK),       beginning in 1994, and was developed by Sear and colleagues in GeoData       into the standard tool for use in River Restoration strategies for SSSI       and SAC rivers [5.5], the latter being cited as a best practice       example in Natural England's evidence to the Government Committee on       Environment, and resulting in improvements to the aquatic environment over       100 kilometres of UK river [5.4].
In 2004, Sear's research contributed to the Office of Science and       Technology's Foresight Future Flooding Report, which set the agenda for       the Defra `Making Space for Water' consultation exercise leading to the       2005 Defra policy document `Making Space for Water'.
These marked a shift       away from structural (embankments, flood channels) and hard engineering       solutions for flood and erosion risk management, and instead placed more       emphasis on working with natural processes and adopting catchment based       solutions.
Through this process the Foresight evidence was used to       underpin the 2009 Draft Water Bill (10, pg 7) which is impacting on       current policy and practice in UK water management [5.3, 5.5].
Most recently, NERC funded (NE/I002219/1) research led by Sear on the       catastrophic flooding in Cumbria in 2009 has contributed to Environment       Agency (EA) policy on sediment management [5.1], and has, through       his work on the LWEC (Living with Environmental Change) working group on       Flood and erosion risk research, led to the inclusion of fluvial       geomorphology within the LWEC National Research Strategy for Flood and       Coastal Erosion Risk Management in 2011, and the developing research       strategy for EA/Defra on Working with Natural Processes (Invited       participant Sheffield Workshop Sept. 2013).
Thus, Geography and Environment research at Southampton, led by Professor       Sear, has had a demonstrable impact on river environments and their       management within the UK, through the provision of evidence (e.g.
Cumbrian       Flood Impacts), guidance (E-Learning, Guidebook, and Training) and       Knowledge Transfer (e.g.
Foresight Report) direct to industry and       government.
