     Individually and collectively, the interrelated projects outlined in       Section 2 and the cumulative underlying research programme of which they       form part, have significantly impacted policy debate, held policy to       scrutiny and influenced policy development during the REF period as       follows:     1) The `food deserts' research initially impacted UK policymakers       through invited presentations to the British Retail Consortium (2002), the       All-Party Parliamentary Food &amp; Health Group at the House of Commons       (2003), and the World Economic Forum (2004).
The research is acknowledged       to have significantly influenced national and international policy       regarding retail-led urban regeneration and to have provided a key element       in the evidence base that led to the development of almost 50 `urban       regeneration partnership stores' in some of the most deprived urban       communities in the UK.
The impact within the current REF period has       extended this reach to North America.
In 2008 the escalating financial       cost of dealing with the consequences of obesity and food insecurity led       the US Congress to mandate the US Dept.
of Agriculture to report on the       `causes and consequences of `food deserts' in the USA'.
Significantly       Professor Wrigley was one of only two international experts invited to       contribute evidence via the US National Academies.
Subsequently the       Southampton `food deserts' research (5.1) and its focus on the       access to healthy foods has become `a cornerstone of the Obama       administration's food policy' (Washington Post).
Most recently, the       policy impact of the Southampton research has been manifested in the form       of an ambitious large-scale policy experiment set up to eradicate `food       deserts' in Philadelphia (5.2).
In 2012, both the Washington         Post and Science acknowledged the pioneering role of the       Southampton research in underpinning this real-world impact.
2) Three specific impacts on policy formation and planning practice have       flowed from the research on retail competition.
First, the 2006-08       Competition Commission `Groceries Market Investigation' drew on the       Southampton research in its extensive and pivotal technical/research       appendices, changing the environment for retail competition in the UK's       high streets (5.3).
Second, the research on the impact of large       foodstores on market towns and district centres has been accepted, since       publication in 2010, as providing state-of-the-art evidence for use in the       practice of planning &#8212; in proposal submissions, decisions and appeals.
The       Government's Planning Portal directs users to a clear summary of       the key Southampton findings (5.4) and examples of the use of the       Southampton findings, as a keystone of the retail location planning       process, continue to rise steadily (5.5).
This substantial impact       on planning practice was highlighted in the leading trade journal `The         Grocer' as an exemplar of how evidence-based research has reset the       parameters of debate on retail competition.
Third, catalysed by an invited       presentation to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Town Centres, the       British Retail Consortium, the British Property Federation, the       Association of Town Centre Managers, and leading retailers, Professor       Wrigley's research on `new generation' town centre corporate convenience       stores, has impacted on corporate and governmental retail planning policy,       debunking conventional perceptions and ensuring evidence-based policy       making.
In a highly unusual unsolicited letter, this work was described by       the CEO of Tesco as `a timely and important contribution to the debate       about the nation's high streets' impacting the firm's corporate strategy (5.6).
3) The co-funded research for ESRC and Tesco PLC (2010-13) is having an       ongoing impact on policy formation.
It was made available to BIS as       background research for the Portas Review and is acknowledged and       summarized in the evidence base evaluation (Understanding high street         performance, 2011 Dec) commissioned by BIS and released to accompany       the Portas Review.
Additionally, ESRC have used this research to exemplify       impact on retail policy in Select Committee evidence (5.7).
Professor Wrigley is the only academic invited to serve on the DCLG Future       High Street Forum &#8212; a high-profile taskforce of key stake-holders       concerned with taking forward policy on the revitalization of town       centres/high streets (5.8).
His work has been highlighted by DCLG       for the evidence that it brings on the drivers of high street footfall.
He       is playing a lead role in shaping DCLG perspectives on retail research.
Separately, and additionally, Prof. Wrigley was one of a small number of       academics invited by BIS to shape BIS's Retail Strategy.
Research       by his Southampton team features extensively in evidence provided by ESRC       to the BIS Select Committee inquiry into the UK retail sector.
In summary, Professor Wrigley's research demonstrates significant impact       on UK and US retail policy at the highest level.
It has challenged and       changed planning and policy practice and had large-scale real-world impact       on food access issues in major US cities, on retail policy and planning in       the UK, and on policy debates over the future of the UK high street.
These       claims can be substantiated by independent and senior figures in the UK       planning and property sectors and by leading executives in the retail       industry (5.9 and 5.10).
