     Research by Wahba into temporary migration has challenged the       conventional threat of the `brain       drain' associated with the emigration of skilled workers, and contributed       to a reassessment of       migration policies on a national and international level.
The World Bank used Wahba's research to support the Egyptian Government       in its 2010       negotiations with the EU on temporary labour migration, specifically the       cross-border movement of       people to supply services, known as `Mode 4' in the WTO's General       Agreement on Trade in       Services (GATS).
Egypt made a commitment to further liberalising and       integrating its service       markets more closely with those of EU member states, as part of the       European Neighbourhood       Policy (ENP) action plan, which seeks to align EU neighbours more closely       with the EU economy.
The World Bank used Wahba's findings to advise Egypt on the benefits of       equipping its people with       education and skills that could be employed in Europe.
This is       corroborated in the evidence       provided by Dr Ozden at the World Bank where he says that "... her work on       return migration (in       the context of Egypt) is considered to be the first rigorous analysis of       this extremely important       issue.....These results have further shaped our thinking on overall       effects of migration and helped       us in our policy advisory work with governments.
For example, in our       report to the Egyptian       government for their Euro-Med partnership negotiations, we advised them on       the benefits of       temporary migration programs based on these findings."
In 2010, in a       report on the effects of       international migration on Egypt, the International Labour Organisation       (ILO, 2010, pp.
4, 7, 8, 25,       26 &amp; 30.)
gave policy recommendations to the Egyptian government based       on Wahba's research.
They included recommendations on setting up online services for return       migrants and offering tax       breaks.
The conclusions of the World Bank report on Education Reform in       the Middle East and       North Africa are also based on Wahba (2008) [3.4]; Drawing on her       research the report concluded,       "the overall benefits from migration seem to outweigh the output loss and       the cost of migrants'       education."
Jean-Christophe Dumont, Head of International Migration Division at the       OECD, says that, `Wahba       made valuable inputs on `return migration and entrepreneurship' for a       conference that the OECD       organised in 2008 with the Italian ministry of foreign affairs.
More       recently, she has drafted a piece       on `migrants' skills and development' which we have used extensively for a       policy brief to be       published by the OECD and the French ministry of foreign affairs.
This       document will be tabled at       the next meeting of the Global Forum of Migration and Development in       Mauritius' (November       2012).
Through its Network on Poverty Reduction, the Organisation for Economic       Co-operation and       Development (OECD) cited Wahba's research in its Development Assistance       Committee's 2009       Policy Guidance Note.
The policy note drew on Wahba's findings on the       entrepreneurship of return       migrants as a key reason to encourage temporary migration.
Wahba has acted       as an OECD       consultant, advising them on how countries can best maximise the benefits       of their return migrants       and the investment and entrepreneurism they bring with them.
The relevance       of her research on       entrepreneurship and return migration is not confined to one region, but       extends to all labour       sending developing countries, as shown in her research being cited, for       example, in the OECD's       International Migration Outlook report in 2008 (pp.
197 &amp; 200) and in       the OECD's 2010 Latin       American Economic Outlook (p. 107)     The International Organisation for Migration (IOM 2009, p. 34) used       Wahba's 2008 research to       inform their 2009 recommendations on the formulation of bilateral and       regional agreements on       migration and return migration of workers within the Arab region.
Wahba's work was used to inform the UN Institute for Training and       Research's Global Migration       Group at the UN Practitioners Symposium in 2010 (p. 3) and the World       Bank's Migration and       Development Briefings (Feb. 2008, p. 3), intended for the World Bank staff       interested in migration       and development.
Wahba was invited to give a talk on return migration at the UNFPA/OECD       conference on "Migrants       Skills for Development in the MENA region" in Tunis, in May 2013, which       aimed at identifying       strategies by public and private sectors in origin and destination       countries that could enable the,       utilisation and mobilisation of migrants' skills.
She was also invited to       talk about entrepreneurship       and investment by return migration, and to co-draft the recommendations of       the OECD Conference       on `Migration, Return and Development' in Milan, in 2008.
She was also a       panellist on the Future       International Migration Research Agenda in March 2011 and was invited to       speak at a conference       on migration in the Arab region in Lebanon in November 2011.
Her speech       received widespread       coverage across the Egyptian national press and online media, raising the       issue's profile among       the public.
Wahba's research featured in several editions of the ESRC's       magazine Society Now       (2012, 2013 and 2014) and her findings on how joblessness increases return       migration were       featured on the University of Oxford's Migration Observatory, an online       resource designed to       inform public policy.
In 2012, Wahba was invited to the World Bank by the       Chief Economist of the       MENA Region to present her latest work.
More recently, Wahba was invited       to speak about return       migration in North Africa, at the Public Policy Day organised by the World       Bank and the Ministry of       Moroccans Residing Abroad, in Rabat, May 2013.
Another example of the impact of Wahba's research is evident in her       appointment by the Home       Office to the UK Migration Advisory Committee for three years from       December 2012.
Wahba is one       of five economists advising the UK Government on migration issues.
