     The University of Southampton's research on labour market instruments and       worker motivation has       been used widely by the US and several European governments and       international agencies to help       shape their economic policies (e.g.
Hungary, Sweden, International Labour       Organisation, OECD,       World Bank), and has featured in the mainstream media to describe the       latest thinking about the       world of work.
Moreover, the findings about what drives altruistic       behaviour generated substantial       interest among those concerned with charitable giving and other forms of       philanthropy, as well as       among policymakers in UK (Behavioural Insights Team of the UK Cabinet       Office) and the US       (Senate and House of Representatives).
Tonin's work on minimum wage legislation and tax evasion has been       acknowledged by the       Hungarian government (Tibor Draskovics, Minister of Justice and Law       Enforcement), which used it       in what it called its `whitening' of the hidden economy project, that is,       putting the black or illicit       economy on a formal, open basis.
During the early 2000s, the minimum wage       affected directly       14% of employees in the country.
The work has also been used by the World       Bank and the       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to underline       the role of the       minimum wage as an important policy tool for reducing undeclared work in       other countries (e.g.
Turkey and Romania.
See, World Bank, 2009, `Reducing Undeclared Work in       Turkey'[p. 32], and       OECD Development Centre, 2008, Informal Employment in Romania [p.57]).
Moreover, the OECD       used the research to assess the role of the minimum wage as a policy tool       in a wider context, citing       the work in its 2008 Employment Outlook, where it suggested the       introduction of a discounted       minimum wage for workers with limited labour market experience.
Tonin's       work on the minimum       wage also features as a chapter in Critical Issues in Taxation and       Development, a volume       published by MIT Press, investigating crucial challenges confronted by       developing countries in       raising revenues.
The Swedish Fiscal Policy Council, which is tasked with providing       independent evaluation of the       Swedish government's fiscal policies, cites in its 2009 (page 256) and       2010 (pages 174-175)       reports the research on the impact of in-work benefits.
These reports are       presented to government       and to parliament in Sweden to guide their policy deliberations.
The       Council used the research to       support the extension of the benefits.
The work has also been used in a       report to the Swedish       Ministry of Finance on `Swedish Tax Policy: Recent Trends and Future       Challenges' (2010, page       214).
In line with the research recommendations, the tax credit has been       gradually expanded in       several steps since its introduction in 2007, becoming, in the       government's own words, `the single       most important reform... to get more people working and reduce exclusion'.
The research was also       used in a report to the European Commission (2010) on `Modelling of Labour       Markets in the       European Union' (page 33) to assess the use of active labour market       policies in the European       context.
Further evidence that the research in Kolm and Tonin (2011) has shaped       government employment       policy can be found in a recent report from the Economic Affairs       Department at the Swedish       Ministry of Finance.
Such reports provide detailed analyses of economic       policy matters that serve       as the basis for government policy.
The December 2011 report titled `How       should the functioning of       the labour market be assessed?'
highlights the importance of the research       of Kolm and Tonin       (2011) in its role for better understanding the role of taxes on labour       force participation.
Tonin's research on the impact of employment protection on job tenure has       been used by the ILO;       The Head of its Employment Trends Unit, Dr Ekkehard Ernst, says it `has         proven to be very helpful         to underpin policy recommendations brought forward in my unit... [the]         analysis has been very         valuable in informing our policy discussion on the role of employment         protection in high         unemployment rates for young people in Southern European countries.'
The research has also       been used in the ILO report, Global Employment Trends for Youth (2010,       page 19), to analyse the       impact of the global economic crisis on young people and provide policy       recommendations and in       the ILO World of Work Report 2012 (2012, pages 42-43).
The research has       also been discussed in       the OECD report, Off to a Good Start?
Jobs for Youth (2010), to help shape       a new agenda of       youth-friendly employment policies and practices.
Besides the above traditional labour market policy oriented research       Tonin's work has also       expanded into the more novel area of behavioural economics, looking at       workers motivation and       pro-social behaviour in the context of labour market policies.
With       growing governmental interest in       policy recommendations in areas such as payroll giving Tonin's work in       this area has been picked       up by policy makers from both sides of the Atlantic.
The influence of Tonin's research on charitable giving and worker       motivation for instance has been       acknowledged by the Behavioural Insights Team of the UK Cabinet Office in       drawing up its 2011       White Paper on Giving, which sought to renew Britain's culture of       philanthropy.
The same research       has also been used by the Joint committee on taxation of the US congress       [p. 36] to evaluate the       policy related to the federal tax treatment of charitable donations and       presented to the House       Committee of Ways and Means (February 11, 2013).
The committee on Ways and       Means is the       main committee in the US congress whose role is to write tax policy.
This research also attracted widespread media coverage, with the emphasis       on gender disparities       in worker motivation, from 2010 onwards, including in The Independent on       Sunday, The Daily       Telegraph, The Economist, The Wall Street Journal, Grazia and on the       website of Philanthropy UK.
In addition, various aspects of Tonin's research have been presented to       several institutions directly       linked to policymaking, including the German Federal Employment Agency,       the ILO, the World       Bank, the Hungarian Central Bank, the Bank of Estonia and the Lithuanian       Institute of Labour and       Social Research.
All these presentations, made by Tonin from 2008 onwards,       related to the       research on the minimum wage and tax evasion, with the exception of the       presentation to the ILO,       which dealt with employment protection legislation.
More generally, Tonin has been asked to comment, on the basis of his       expertise in labour market       regulations, on current economic matters in media outlets that include       Time, The Ottawa Citizen of       Canada, Il Gazzettino of Italy and UniNews, the magazine of UniCredit       Bank.
