     Ornaghi's research on competition between prescription drugs, and how the       entry of generic drugs affects pricing and advertising strategies has been       used by the Department of Health of Cataluna as well as the EU competition       commission:     In 2010 the Department of Health of the Government of Cataluna (CatSalut)       set up a task force to review and provide the foundations of new policies       for reforming the financing and access to new prescription drugs and       managing innovation in the pharmaceutical industry.
As a member of this       taskforce Ornaghi's invited contribution involved advising how the       industry could reconcile innovation with controlling expenditure.
This       intervention and the ensuing discussions resulted in a 2011 policy paper       published by CatSalut [5.1].
In a letter dated 1 February 2013, Dr       Antoni Gilabert, managing director at CatSalut, writes that `[Dr         Ornaghi's] participation in our 2010 Task Force has proven to be very         helpful to adjust the strategies, performed in both pricing and         reimbursement commissions.'
The same line of research has also proactively informed policy within the       European Union.
Professor Georges Siotis (former advisor to the EU       commission's Chief Competition Economist), who co-authored this research,       used the findings to contribute to the `Pharmaceutical Sector Inquiry       Report' published by the European Commission in 2009.
Ornaghi's earlier research into the effects of mergers and acquisitions       on the innovative activities of pharmaceutical companies has also informed       and influenced several notable policy makers and antitrust authorities.
His work on the economics of the pharmaceutical industry has added an       important new perspective to policy debates on both sides of the Atlantic,       and has been referenced by some of the most influential experts of       antitrust issues.
In the USA the research has been cited by several       economists working for the Antitrust Division of the US Department of       Justice.
Ornaghi's findings are referenced in two 2009 studies: one on the       necessity of issuing new merger guidelines written by G. Werdner, a senior       economic counsel [5.3] and the other by Professor Michael Katz, a       former Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Economic Analysis [5.4].
As the author of some of the first and most exhaustive research papers in       this subject area, Ornaghi has shown possible avenues towards a fairer       industry, a more sustainable health service and better patient access to       the latest drugs and technologies.
Ornaghi discussed and presented the       research to economists in the EU Competition Commission, most notably to       Professor George Siotis, former advisor to the Commission's Chief       Competition Economist, Professor Damien Neven.
In a letter dated 27       November 2012, Siotis states that:     `Dr Ornaghi's research on the pharmaceutical industry has been having         a relevant impact on the work of economists working for antitrust         authorities and other public institutions.'
He confirms that he used key insights and results from Ornaghi's paper to       prepare for a talk he delivered to the EU think tank Bruegel, and that the       work, `some of the most relevant in the field', also informed a policy       workshop on innovation held at the Toulouse School of Economics.
Most significantly, Siotis was also directly involved in most of the       antitrust cases to surface during the EU Competition Directorate's sector       enquiry in the pharmaceutical industry, completed in 2009.
He attributes       `most of [his] insights on competitive dynamics in the pharmaceutical       industry' to Ornaghi's work.
Ornaghi's research findings have also       informed a policy paper published in 2011 by the Organisation for Economic       Co-operation and Development (OECD Trade Policy Papers).
In an       acknowledgement of what Ornaghi terms the `depreciation of human capital'       following a merger, author Nobuo Kiriyama notes that: `While M&amp;As can       bring about cost reduction by eliminating duplication, and promote       synergies by unifying the expertise of two companies, the large reduction       in the number of researchers following a merger, together with cultural       friction, may hamper innovative performance' [5.2].
