     Robinson's novel modification of Micromass' original Q-ToF mass       spectrometer, a proposal arising directly from her research needs, has       generated a new area of mass spectrometry research in industry as well as       academia, in which intact protein complexes can be studied and the       chemistry of small molecules and drugs investigated.
Using earlier designs       of mass spectrometer optimised for proteomics and small-molecule drug       analysis, it was not possible to maintain the non-covalent interactions in       the gas phase since the pressure regimes and mass range of the       instrumentation were not sufficient.
The prototype instrument described in Section 2 outperformed all       anticipated specifications; the suite of initial papers that Robinson       published (including references [2] and [3], and also reported in May 2001       at the ASMS Conference [7]) contained solid evidence that the new design       could record the mass spectra of large intact molecules, and resulted in a       high level of interest from other laboratories.
This, in turn, created a       demand for the modified Q-ToF mass spectrometer to be made commercially       available.
The Senior Director of Mass Spectrometry Research at Micromass       UK Ltd, part of Waters Corporation, confirms that `the first [commercially       available] extended mass quadrupole units for the Q-ToF were developed in       2000, following the suggestions of Professor Robinson', and based on the       prototype tested by Robinson at Oxford University [8].
Two model classes       of mass spectrometers manufactured by Waters contain Robinson's       modification: the Q- ToF and the SYNAPT.
A rival company, now AB Sciex,       also thought the new design was sufficiently commercially viable to invest       in, and manufactured their own version, the QStar, in 2006.
However, only       a few QStar instruments have been sold, most likely because these were       significantly more expensive than Micromass' instruments.
Whilst initial sales of the modified mass spectrometers were confined to       academia, the research demonstrating the ability of mass spectrometry to       preserve protein complexes and to study the effects of drug binding       (including [4] above) has led to purchases by industry, notably by       pharmaceutical companies.
The benefits for such customers within the       pharmaceutical industry are illustrated by the three examples below.
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical company Amgen bought their second       SYNAPT instrument in 2008 as a tool for analysing drug-like molecules.
A       recent Amgen white paper confirms that the instrument's increased       quadrupole mass range allows for `mass selection, transmission and         ultimately activation and fragmentation of large protein complexes.
This         fragmentation allows for protein subunit complex stoichiometry         determination, which has proven incredibly valuable if the stoichiometry         of the protein complex is unknown, or if the complex is heterogeneous'       [9].
Amgen has used ion mobility-mass spectrometry to analyze polyethylene       glycol and PEGylated polypeptides, IgG2 monoclonal antibodies and most       recently the detection of large multimeric charge-reduced protein       complexes [10].
Novo Nordisk, a global healthcare company with particular       expertise in diabetes care, has purchased a SYNAPT and used it to carry       out a joint collaborative study to monitor insulin aggregation [11].
A       senior Novo Nordisk scientist confirms that the mass spectrometer       modifications suggested by Robinson have given them `insight into the         structure and function of protein pharmaceuticals that would otherwise         be difficult or impossible to obtain' [12].
In addition, GSK is       working with Pentraxin, a spin-out company from University College London,       to develop small molecules that stabilise transthyretin, a blood protein       linked to a rare but fatal disease called amyloidosis.
This research       programme has also used the modified spectrometers to perform analysis of       the macromolecules and determine the efficacy of potential inhibitors in       regulating the assembly and disassembly of transthyretin, directly       building on Robinson's demonstration that it was possible to use the new       instrumentation to study interactions within protein assemblies,       particularly in relation to the effect of drugs.
Many of these experiments are not possible on standard mass       spectrometers, since the required accuracy, resolution and pressure       regimes cannot be achieved.
Thus, Robinson's modified ESI- MS design has       led to significant improvements in potential drug identification and       analysis, since multimeric drug targets can be observed intact and the       effect of potential inhibitors can consequently be revealed in an entirely       new environment.
To give an indication of the context for sales of the new mass       spectrometers, in 2012 Waters achieved net sales of over $ 1.8 billion, an       increase of 17% since 2008 [13].
45% of these sales were of instrument       systems including its mass spectrometer range.
Overall, Q-ToF and SYNAPT       instruments containing the modification proposed by Robinson constitute       about half of all Q-ToF instruments sold by the Waters Corporation [8].
There has thus been a significant impact on the commercial success of a       leading multinational instrument manufacturer, worth many millions of       dollars.
