     The key impact of the research is in the cultural context.
The research       outputs and activities associated with the research projects have directly       impacted on the practices of professional dance artists and emerging dance       artists in terms of providing new insights and understandings of the ways       in which new and emerging technologies can influence and inform innovation       in choreographic practices.
The e-Dance Project engaged in ongoing dialogue with professional dance       artists throughout the research process.
An example of this is: Helen       Bailey was invited to contribute to the MIMA (Moving Image Media Artists)       workshop co-hosted by Troika Ranch, a US-based Dance and Technology       Company, and the 3DL Center in New York, USA.
This workshop provided the       opportunity to discuss the e-Dance software development and disseminate       the software innovations developed as part of the project to a group of       selected international professional digital media and performance artists       from the UK, USA, Hong Kong, and Belgium.
[5.5]     The e-Dance Project resulted in the creation of two publically presented       performance works, Morphologies (2007) and Here and There (2010).
The       making of these works directly utilised the compositional methods that had       been developed as part of the research process.
An Arts Council England       Grants for the Arts Award resulted in the development of `Here and There',       an evening's length performance work integrating the software developed as       part of the e-Dance project.
This dance work toured to professional       theatre venues and provided dissemination of the research to a general       public audience.
Professional dance artists were employed to work on the       development and performance of these works, ten professional dancers (Lee       Awanah, Catherine Bennett, River Carmalt, Marina Collard, Louise Douse,       Nicola Drew, Amalia Garcia, James Hewison, Diccon Hogger, and Lisa       Spackman) were engaged directly in this process and developed new       knowledge and insight.
[5.6]     The e-Dance Project has resulted in the development of new software       tools, which have impacted directly on the development of new       compositional approaches and methods for documentation.
The British       Library invited the e-Dance Project team to contribute research findings       and outputs in the form of the software tools and documentation of       performance outputs to a 12-month public exhibition.
The exhibition titled       `Growing Knowledge: the evolution of research tools' opened to the general       public in October 2010.
This provided direct access to a general public       audience to the ways in which emerging technology is driving innovation in       research methods.
[5.1]     A significant professional partnership underpinning this case study is       with DanceDigital.
Dance Digital is a national professional arts       organization, funded by Arts Council England that focuses on developing       professional practice and dance artists engaged in interdisciplinary       dance-making integrating dance and digital technologies.
DanceDigital are       resident at the University of Bedfordshire and a series of collaborative       projects are in place between CARD and DanceDigital that provides       opportunities for existing research to impact on professional dance       artists.
The partnership forms part of a strategy to develop innovative work in       dance, performance and technology that contributes to research and       professional practices in curating, artistic practice and community       development.
Artistic Director of DanceDigital, Tamara Ashley's research       into environmental, site-sensitive and ecological performance practices       have directly informed the curatorial vision for DanceDigital, where she       has been particularly interested in the use of interactive technologies to       create new experiences of place, environments and social interactions.
The       work of DanceDigital reaches 10,000-15,000 people annually through       performance and participation activities.
Ashley led on the development of       Digital Futures in Dance Conference in 2011, which was an event of       international significance in the dance and technology sector.
Ashley       secured the funds from the Arts Council Grants for the Arts programme and       led a consortium of Dance South West, South East Dance and Bournemouth       University in the development and delivery of the project.
185       participants from the professional arts community internationally attended       the conference, 25 papers, 8 workshops and 15 performances were presented.
Helen Bailey was invited to provide a keynote presentation on the e-Dance       Project and specifically the value of artist-driven software development.
[5.2]     The current collaborative project being undertaken as a result of the       partnership between DanceDigital and CARD is Mobilities, an artist       development project funded by Arts Council England, which will culminate       in a Festival in April 2014.
This establishes a series of DanceDigital       Fellows &#8212; Helen Bailey, Marlon Barrios Solano, Alex Rueben, and Anthony       Lilley &#8212; who act as mentors to a group of associate dance artists &#8212; Luke       Pell and Jo Verrent, Rachel Davies, Marguerite Caruana Galizia, Annie Lok,       Tim Casson and Tom Butterworth, Rachel Cherry, and Helen Williams, and       Stacey Weeks.
The fellows have provided workshops on their own research       and mentoring on applicability of the research to the associate artists'       needs.
[5.8]
