     European Extremely Large Telescope (E-ELT)     The European Southern Observatory's planned European Extremely Large       Telescope (E-ELT) to be sited in Chile will have a 39m primary mirror with       798 hexagonal 1.4 m mirror segments and will be the largest       optical/near-infrared telescope in the world.
At its meeting on 11th       June 2012, the ESO Council gave its approval for the construction       programme to proceed [reference a] following review of preparatory       work.
Two 5 M&#8364; contracts were placed in 2008 with Sagem (France) and OpTIC       Technium (acquired by Glynd&#373;r University in 2009 and renamed Optic       Glynd&#373;r) for the provision of seven aspheric prototype segments for the       primary mirror as part of the detailed design phase (phase B) during which       critical components have been prototyped.
These contracts include test       setups and the necessary tooling and process development for the       polishing.
The research enabling the avoidance of rolling edges down has       underpinned the implementation of Glyndwr's contract.
The requirements       were so demanding that this required the development of a unique polishing       process and measurement system.
In the UK, the E-ELT project is supported       by the Science and Technology Facilities Council.
According to the STFC, `the         team at Glynd&#373;r University St Asaph working with Leicestershire-based         technology company Zeeko have become the first collaboration in the         world to polish right to the edge of hexagonal-shaped mirror using         direct mechanical polishing methods and at a scale of ten thousand times         smaller than the diameter of a human hair'.
The STFC predicts that       the project will generate contracts for UK industry worth some &#163;90       million.
[reference e]     The E-ELT News &amp; Events newsletter for November 2013 includes the       statement, `5.
UK collaboration successfully polishes a prototype E-ELT         mirror segment to ESO specifications A collaboration between Glyndwr         University St Asaph, Zeeko, and others have met the &lt;15 nanometer         compliance surface accuracy over the entire optical aperture, and out to         the edges, of a prototype 1.4m hexagonal mirror segment using direct         mechanical polishing methods.
Achieving this milestone demonstrates         potential for manufacturing E-ELT mirror segments as well as other uses         for large high-precision mirrors in ground and space applications'.
[reference h]     The E-ELT Construction Proposal: Executive Summary &amp; Proposal Digest       [reference b] states that `The work carried out to date,         primarily with industry, has reduced the risk for both the technical         demands and the management of the programme.
Following successful         technical and financial reviews, the programme is in an excellent         position to move into construction.
This position is underpinned by       ESO's recent acceptance of the first prototype segment manufactured by       Glyndwr [reference d].
This provides an additional process-chain       and manufacturing capability which results in de-risking for the E-ELT       project.
At the outset, ESO warned us that we could anticipate numerous technical       challenges, and that proved the case.
Under Glynd&#373;r, the project has made       consistent progress.
In certain respects results have exceeded ESO       expectations, and in several key areas process capability is comparable       with or exceeds that of global competitors:            Glynd&#373;r's interferomtric test is the only test system in the world         able to meet ESO specification and provides accuracy over 2x better than         that of the main competitor       Glynd&#373;r has polished surfaces having 5x worse input quality than         envisaged by ESO, thus providing an effective de-risking of the prior         grinding processes       Glyndwr's prototype project has provided a positive influence on the         UK's decision to subscribe &#163;88m to the E-ELT construction-phase.
This is         reinforced by a recent unsolicited request by STFC to visit         OpTIC-Glyndwr and Zeeko Ltd to discuss the UK's potential involvement in         segment fabrication [reference f].
Commercial impact on Zeeko Ltd     Zeeko Ltd (Company No.
03990080, www.zeeko.co.uk)       was established in 2000 to commercialize Walker's research into advanced       surface-removal processes and measurement techniques.
The company       manufacturers CNC polishing machines (50mm to 2m capacity) and metrology       instrumentation.
It exports almost all its products, to 15 countries       spanning Europe, North America and Asia, mostly for the astronomy,       defence, automotive, consumer, aerospace, remote-sensing,       semiconductor-photolithography markets.
The ESO research enabling the avoidance of rolling edges down led       directly to Zeeko's design and manufacture of the first 1.6m CNC polishing       machine, thereby extending the company's product- range and ability to       meet more demanding customer requirements [reference g].
Edge-control has also recently enabled Zeeko to make its first sale into       the emerging EUV photolithography photomask market (Japan).
The customer       was previously unable to meet the flatness specification over a sufficient       large area on these rectangular fused silica parts, using conventional CMP       processes.
[reference g]     The ESO mirror segments were pre-ground aspheric on the BoX       Ultra-precision grinder (built by Cinetic Landis) at Cranfield University.
The Zeeko staff participating in the ESO project were thereby exposed to       the performance of an ultra-precision grinding machine.
A key insight was       the impact that the input-quality to polishing has on the polishing       process-chain, in regard to total process time and control of mid spatial       frequency defects.
Following on from this experience, Cinetic Landis and       Zeeko have agreed an exclusive agreement to sell a jointly developed       Optical Grinding Machine in the Optics Market.
This has brought to market       a "total process solution" for medium-large optics, which can be traced to       the segment project.
[reference g]     Zeeko's operation and growth between 2009 and 2013 is directly       underpinned by the past and current research of Walker's group.
The number       of employees almost doubled from around 28 in 2009 to around 50 in 2012,       whilst turnover has increased from &#163;3.5 million in 2009 to &#163;4 million in       2012 (excluding the 1.6 metre &#163;1.5m machine built for Glyndwr's ESO       segment project).
Zeeko Innovations Ltd was formed in 2012 based at Optic       as a direct result of Glynd&#373;r research programme and has created three       jobs.
[reference g]
