     The research resulted in the patenting, development and launch by       Japanese food ingredients company San Ei Gen FFI Inc. of the product       Supergum&#8482; (United States Patent 7462710), prior to 2008.
The       further impact since 2008 concerns other companies' use of the       University's analytical services (enabled by the underpinning research)       and the University's support to the Gum Arabic Board of Sudan in its work       towards in enhancing the quality profile of gum Arabic products for       export.
The research described above enabled Al-Assaf to develop gum       arabic industrial standards: exact protocols to follow in terms of       measuring the structural parameters to the model beverage emulsion to       stability, with a certificate issued confirming the attributes of the       materials tested.
a) Use of analytical services     The research into the properties and characterisation of acacia gum       enabled Prof Al-Assaf and colleagues to develop new methodologies for       fast, accurate and reliable estimate of the structural characteristics       associated with good and poor emulsifiers.
These include the graphical       presentation of key structural characteristics with performance further       confirmed by reporting on functionality testing of model beverage       emulsion.
Since 2008 more than 44 companies have used the University's analytical       service for characterization and properties of acacia gum enabling them to       receive detailed and additional information about the raw material's       suitability for the intended application and/or new formulations.
Examples       are: Nestl&#233;, Doehler, Givuadan, Kerry Ingredients.
Doehler GmbH, Germany is a technology-based natural ingredients,       ingredient systems and integrated solutions for the food and beverage       industry.
Its external innovation network is supported by the University's       Phillips Hydrocolloid Research Centre.
The company reports that the       support provided by PHRC has resulted in benefits in terms of [text       removed for publication].
(reference a)     b) Supporting the Gum Arabic Board of Sudan in enhancing the quality         profile of gum Arabic products for export     The benefits of this research and the associated development of new       methodologies for fast, accurate and reliable estimate of the structural       characteristics associated with good and poor emulsifiers have also now       been extended to supply sources in Sudan, South Sudan and Kenya.
This has       been done by providing detailed instructions and staff training to ensure       consistency of sampling and reliable subsequent supply worldwide.
Al-Assaf       presented an invited lecture detailing the methodologies and techniques       described above at a key workshop organized by the Government of Southern       Sudan (Juba 21-23rd July 09) attended by a range of producer       organisations, NGOs and governmental bodies (reference b).
As a       result of the workshop the UN Food Agriculture Organisation commissioned       Al-Assaf in collaboration with the Netherlands Development Organisation       (SNV) to train staff and set up a centre to enhance the quality assurance       of products sourced from South Sudan.
Al-Assaf delivered specific       workshops and staff training courses to a number of Sudanese companies to       specifically improve their operation: Almoawana Development Co Ltd (2009),       Valmar International (2010), Massaie Investment Co Ltd (2011); Nopec       Development Co Ltd, Sudan 2012), Dangate Danjadeed (2012), Albakry Factory       (2012), Elanan Trading Ltd (2011) (reference c).
Subsequently, a       workshop (30th October 2011) entitled "Good Practice of Gum       Arabic collection and Processing" organised by the Gum Arabic Board was       delivered to all major suppliers and exporters of gum Arabic in Sudan.
Through this work, the University has according to the Gum Arabic Board       helped to implement their policy to guarantee the supply of validated and       quality material suitable for specific applications (reference c).
New guidelines were introduced by the Gum Arabic Board to grade the       exporters according to facilities and resources they have; this became a       condition for renewal of export licences.
The Ministry of Trade together       with the Gum Arabic Board visited a number of companies to inspect and       their comments about level of improvements in the industry have been       attributed to the work with the above mentioned companies.
In 2011 Nopec Development Co Ltd established a new technical laboratory       in its factory based in Khartoum supported by Phillips Hydrocolloids       Research Centre as a Technical Adviser to enhance company's quality policy       aims through implementing a traceability programme.
This has enabled the       company to achieve improved inspection outcomes and to provide its       customers with the high quality of Gum Arabic that meets their needs, and       expectations.
The company has renewed its agreement with PHRC until       December 2014, and sales volume has increased from 4,000 tonnes in 2011 to       8,000 already achieved and could reach to 9,000 tonnes by the end of 2013       (reference d).
Similarly, Elanan Trading Co has also established a technical laboratory       supported by PHRC to enhance its quality profile (references e, f).
San Ei Gen FFI (Japan) and Doehler GmBH use the testing and accreditation       methodologies set up by the University and implemented at source with       supplier companies in Sudan.
Systematic sampling is undertaken on       pre-shipment batches.
This way it has been possible for the above       mentioned users to obtain the same quality from the pre-shipment samples       (1Kg) with the subsequent delivered quantities (in MT's).
This has never       been the case before (reference g).
