     Overlapping into the current REF period, Home's research resulted in his       being invited onto government working groups which developed the       officially-preferred approach to GTAA methodology.
He spoke on this at       numerous training events for local government officers after 2007, and       presented at a workshop for GTAA consultants, held in Birmingham on 10       July 2008, which contributed to a report to government on benchmarking       standards for future GTAAs; Home was involved in the resulting robustness       checks to identify circumstances or assumptions which might lead to GTAAs       either over- or underestimating need, and to suggest what sort of       adjustments might be made for greater accuracy and reliability of       evidence.
The methodology which Home and Dr. Margaret Greenfields had developed for       the Cambridge Sub-region GTAA (Romani Studies, ref.2 above) has       remained acknowledged as best practice and taken up in many of the GTAAs       undertaken for local government consortia from 2006 to the present.
Home       was invited to give expert evidence at the South West Regional       Examination-in-Public of Gypsy accommodation needs, held in Exeter in       2008, resulting in revised regional guidance.
In 2012 he advised Doncaster       Borough Council on its new GTAA and contributed subsequent planning appeal       expert evidence, while other GTAAs in the current round of such studies       (for the period 2011-2016) have contributed to draw upon the Cambridge       Sub-region approach, especially in relation to survey questionnaire       design.
The change of UK government in 2010 was soon followed by Basildon       Council's widely-publicized direct action against Gypsies in breach of       planning control at Dale Farm (Essex).
During this time Home's research       expertise resulted in him being asked to give numerous media interviews       (local, regional and national), including Independent on Sunday (reach       metric 109,901, web reach metric 264,952), Radio Essex interviews and       Radio Sheffield (total reach metrics of 375,000), TV documentary for BBC1       Look East (reach metric 412,000).
Home has also been an invited speaker on       Gypsy planning and enforcement issues at various training days for the       Essex Planning Officers' Association, East of England Royal Town Planning       Institute regional branch, and Southern Region Enforcement Officers Group       (2007-2011).
The average attendance at these events was 25-30, and       included:            Norfolk &amp; Suffolk Planning Officer Group 12 January 2011,       Essex Planning Officers Association Planning Policy Forum Chelmsford 1         September 2009       East of England RTPI workshop, Welwyn &amp; Hatfield Council Offices,         19 November 2010,       East Anglia Enforcement Officer Group meeting, Needham Market,         Suffolk, 14 May 2010).
BBC Radio Sheffield, BBC Surrey and Sussex, Independent on Sunday,       and TV feature in BBC1 Look East, and his research was quoted in       an article in the New York Times (see sources to corroborate       below).
His continuing research (published in the International         Journal of Law and the Built Environment and elsewhere) contributes       to best practice in the current second round of GTAAs (for the period       2012-2016 and beyond), including that for Essex local authorities (in the       reassessment following the Dale Farm evictions).
Since the statutory       abolition of Regional Spatial Strategies and the greater local flexibility       accorded to GTAAs, Home's research methodology continues to inform new       local approaches to the new round of GTAAs, especially regarding the legal       status of 'tolerated' sites and of Gypsies settled in social housing.
He       has now been involved in seven GTAA studies (as well as two Regional       Spatial Strategy studies), affecting about a quarter of the       Gypsy/Traveller caravan population of England (estimated at about       300,000).
Professor Home's Gypsy research has also had international impact, as       similar accommodation issues are acknowledged in other countries.
This has       resulted in invitations to participate in various international workshops       for institutes and development aid agencies, One such was for an       international workshop for the Onati International Institute for the       Sociology of Law on the theme of 'Indignation, Socio-economic Inequality       and the Role of Law', held in May 2012.
He was a consultee and participant       in the launch of the new European Union Roma Inclusion Strategy (2011),       following European Parliament endorsement (see http://ec.europa.eu/justice/discrimination/roma/national-strategies).
