     The review undertaken to inform the further development of the Physical       Activity guidelines in 2010       (`Making the case for UK Physical Activity Guidelines for Early Years:       Recommendations and draft       summary statements based on the current evidence') highlighted the need to       consider the       emerging research in the area of sedentary behaviour.
As a consequence,       Professor S. Biddle at       Loughborough University, based upon his and the Unit's leading research in       this area, was invited       to Chair a working group to review and make recommendations regarding the       incorporation of       guidance on sedentary behaviour into these new national policies.
The       group comprised a further       thirteen members, including Dr. T. Gorely (Loughborough, 1999-2011).
This working group published the `Sedentary Behaviour and Obesity: Review       of the Current       Scientific Evidence' report in March 2010 [5.1].
The report drew       upon the emerging evidence on       prevalence of sedentary behaviour in UK youth and its associated health       implications, from the       underpinning research set out in the papers published by Unit members [3.2,         3.3].
Having       highlighted the paucity of evidence-based policies to date, it also       references the comprehensive       analyses of the new research area and its evidence base published by       members of the Unit [3.4,         3.5].
Professor Biddle's working group set out clear recommendations in their       report for the       incorporation of sedentary behaviour guidance, based on the findings from       the Unit's underpinning       research publications, into the UK national Physical Activity Guidelines.
These recommendations       were that UK guidance on physical activity; should contain a specific       recommendation that children       and young people, adults, and older adults should aim to minimise the time       they spend being       sedentary each day; should not set a quantified target for sedentary time,       but emphasise       minimising time spent being sedentary each day; should include specific       recommendations for       limiting sedentary time among children of pre-school age; and should       suggest the strategies to       reduce sedentary behaviour [5.1].
These recommendations have significantly transformed the physical       activity guidelines, which are       manifested in the `Start Active, Stay Active' report (2011) from the Chief       Medical Officers of the       four home countries.
This is a UK-wide document that presents guidelines       on the volume, duration,       frequency and type of physical activity required.
At p.7, the report       highlights the need for       minimising the amount of time spent being sedentary for extended periods       for all four categories of       individuals (Early Years, Children and Young People, Adults and Older       Adults) [5.2, 5.7, 5.8].
The       report does not specify a quantified target for sedentary time, as per the       recommendation from the       working group.
It does give tailored guidance on limiting sedentary time       for early years children       (pp.22-25) [5.2, 5.7,5.8].
The report also includes details of       strategies to reduce sedentary       behaviour, for example `children and young people may engage in light       activity and reduce sitting       and lying time by playing active computer games or engaging in activities       that involve moving in       and around the home, classroom or community' (p.29) [5.2,5.7,5.8].
From these new UK physical activity guidelines, factsheets have been       derived that clearly highlight       the guidance in relation to sedentary behaviour that emerged from the       working group [5.3].
These new policy guidelines have been published by the UK government for       use by health       professionals and practitioners, providing the first step in raising       awareness of the critical health       issues of sedentary behaviour for the whole UK population.
Wider dissemination and incorporation into guidance documents has also       taken place.
The       Loughborough University research findings on sedentary behaviour in       Scottish youth [G3.2] have       been summarised in a 5-page `research brief' flyer for NHS Health Scotland       [5.4] and supported by       a stakeholder dissemination day.
The British Heart Foundation National       Centre for Physical Activity       &amp; Health has also incorporated findings from the underpinning research       at Loughborough into its       fact sheets [5.5] and Weight Watchers has produced a practical       guide for members, which was       written by Biddle [5.6].
