     The impact of UoA36 36-1 is most clearly demonstrated in its       peer-reviewed successes in the       awards fora for the audio broadcast industries.
(Ref.
a and b       below).
BBC Broadcasting is subject to audience measurement methodologies that,       in recent years, can       be seen to demonstrate the growing success and strength of BBC Radio 4's       broadcast output.
This collection of Harrison's four programme outputs (UoA36 36-1, 36-2,       36-3 and 36-4) were       commissioned by the BBC on the basis that they contribute to maintaining       the distinctive quality       of the BBC's broadcast output.
And indeed during the period of this work,       the context of the       research sits within a period of growth in BBC Radio 4 listenership.
Radio Joint Audience Research (RAJAR) figures show consistent growth       during the period which       Harrison's broadcasts were transmitted.
The sampling methodology used by       RAJAR does not       make it possible to gain specific listening figures for one individual       radio programme.
But taking       evidence from the network figures as a whole; for example &#8212; between       January and March 2011,       21% of UK adults (over 16) were listening to BBC Radio 4 regularly and the       network reached       10.8 million listeners each week.
BBC Radio 4 has the largest audience for       a speech radio       station in the UK with discerning listeners; dedicating themselves to the       highest amount of hours       listening than any other BBC station &#8212; at 12 hours per week.
(Reference c,         d and e)     The other key measure of impact here is qualitative audience measurement       and response,       gathered via official sources.
BBC Radio 4 has its own direct measures of       audience appreciation       in measuring listener satisfaction &#8212; this includes collecting content       received directly from       listeners via their online feedback, and is used by producers and the       broadcast network itself in       gauging listener satisfaction for particular programmes.
The two examples       below, can be seen to       demonstrate how, for example, `On It' elicited a genuine audience response       in terms of what it       set out to do in terms of both its medium and subject matter.
Received on 28th of October 2011 via Radio 4:       "The best drama I have ever come across about a young person with a drug       addiction.
So       beautifully written, so painfully real and the story and characters so       entirely believable.
Adam       Gillen as Liam brought an exceptional performance and for me, he brought a       well written       character heartbreakingly to life.
will keep an eye out for this young       actor.
Please pass my       comments to the programme makers.
Thank you "     Received on 4th of November 2011via Radio 4:       "I'm in floods of tears as the result of the excellent, but heart-breaking       Afternoon Play "on It".
As       a mother of 2 sons who are hopefully escaping the horrors of this       pernicious and most evil of       drugs, I would like to extend my deepest sympathies to the Jones family       and congratulate you on       this realistic and down to earth approach to a subject that touches more       families than you can       ever imagine".
