     Research by Zhelev on the application of laser light scattering       technologies for protein and DNA       analysis, supported by the work of Bradley on the mechatronic principles       underlying the design and       manufacture of specialist measurement systems (both at the University of       Abertay Dundee), has       resulted in the development and commercialisation of a new instrument for       use in the       pharmaceutical and biotechnology arena.
This novel hand-held instrument,       the PAM&#8482;Zero, was       launched in 2011 by Norton Scientific Inc. generating sales exceeding       $100,000 in the first 6       months (http://www.norsci.ca).
Further       interactions with Norton Scientific Inc. following this success       has led to an on-going project defining the workflow for follow-up future       products and has already       completed design specifications for a follow up &#8212; the PAM 2.0,       incorporating additional       functionality.
Zhelev's research and deep understanding of the measurement requirements       for a suitable light       scattering system appropriate for use by molecular biotechnologists, was       critical in informing the       design and development of an essentially new approach to laboratory       measurement of protein       interaction.
He focussed on improving the speed and cost efficiency of       drug development research       rather than on the creation of new theoretical techniques of measurement.
Previously available       methods allowing protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions assay were       costly, time-consuming       and demanded highly skilled operators.
Alternative, laser light scattering       technologies available in       the 1990's were expensive bench-top devices requiring large sample sizes       (&gt;1ml) rendering most       unsuitable for molecular biotechnology studies.
Zhelev and Bradley's       informed approach to the       design and development of a technology suitable for studying protein       interactions was to be guided       by the requirements of research and development scientists (speed, sample       size, measurands,       ergonomics).
Research at Abertay was undertaken in the following key areas:            Identification of the most appropriate applications for use of rapid         screening by light         scattering of protein and DNA interactions, including crystallization         and aggregation         kinetics;       Biochemical analysis to define, develop and validate the workflow         methodology (including         constraints on sample preparation) which eventually formed the basis of         the Operating         Manual;       Ergonomic design of the detector sub-system taking into account         factors of crucial         importance to a protein biochemist, such as minimising sample loss         (samples are         recoverable), maximising sensitivity and ease of data interpretation;       Design issues associated both with the operation of the instrument and         its manufacture.
This concentrated on two main areas (i) the ability to automate various         aspects of the         process associated with the measurement process in order to increase         throughput and (ii)         the use of manufacturing technologies such as 3D printing to customise         specific system         elements.
As a result of this research work, which also involved testing at Queens       University in Kingston,       Ontario, a prototype detector using fibre optics and an ultra-low volume       flow cell was developed       and tested for use in protein crystallography and protein aggregation       kinetics.
This research led directly to the formation of a new spin out company,       Norton Scientific Inc,       founded in Ontario Canada in 2010 (to improve access and penetration of       the US marketplace)       and supported by a Science Advisory Board that included Zhelev and Bradley       as founder members       (with White).
Further interactions with the company after testing of the       prototype resulted in a major       improvement in sample handling by creating a novel sample head capable of       measuring protein       samples within a pipette tip, thereby eliminating sample waste.
Norton       Scientific, following launch       in 2011 of the resulting detector called PAM&#8482;Zero, obtained a private       listing on the Frankfurt       Borse First Quotation Board, valuing the company at $7M by late 2012.
Early sales (globally) of the       PAM&#8482;Zero exceeded $100,000 in the first 6 months from launch, and has       helped diminish the       effect of analytical bottlenecks delaying the launch of new drugs by       biotechnology and       pharmaceutical R&amp;D.     Since launching the first version of the PAM&#8482;Zero, it has penetrated a       number of key research       and development markets in North America, India/Asia and Europe, selling       to a mix of drug       development companies, the environmental and food and drink industry and       to academic research       groups studying protein structure.
Early feedback from key customers has       already been       consolidated into the design of a new PAM (the PAM 2.0) that will       incorporate a UV/Vis       spectrophotometer option, (developed with the support of Bradley) and       incorporating novel 3-D       printing technology in its manufacture, to be developed in collaboration       with the University of       Abertay Dundee.
This functionality will produce a slight increase in cost       but increase the usability       of the instrument significantly.
The applications research undertaken by Zhelev has provided the       foundation for a number of       collaborative research links established by Norton Scientific since 2010,       including Queens       University, Kingston, Canada and Harvard Medical School, USA.
These links       have also extended       the research network of the University of Abertay Dundee.
As a result of       this work, new tools that       can accelerate drug discovery research, have and will continue to be       developed and       commercialized for the bio-pharmaceutical and -technology markets.
