     The research-led programme of activities undertaken by the researchers of       the Crafts Study Centre and the Anglo-Japanese Textile Research Centre has       made UCA a hub of critical craft debate and research which draws together       a diverse range of practitioners from across the broadly conceived fields       of craft, as identified by The Craft Blueprint: a workforce         development plan for craft in the UK (2009) which named the CSC as a       specialist craft research centre in the UK.
These activities afford       critical reflection upon personal practice in the context of a discipline.
They provide a critical platform for the presentation of work that engages       and interfaces with existing and new audiences, which in turn informs and       expands the education, scholarship and research of crafts.
Solo and retrospective shows are undertaken in collaboration with the       curatorial researchers at UCA, and afford the creative practitioner a       means to explain and explore the nature of their personal practice and       work.
Fred Baier: The Right Angle (2011-12) presented a body of       work, past and new, which testified to his often radical approach to       making furniture which traverses the fields of art and design.
This       exhibition was one of a series of three CSC/Ruthin Craft Centre       contemporary furniture exhibitions curated by Olding which received 54,252       visitors in total.
To mark the occasion of Baier's solo show, the Crafts       Study Centre was supported by the Artfund and the V&amp;A/ACE Museum       Purchase Fund to commission a new piece by him, Cube in a Cube,       currently on show at the CSC.
Following the presentation of Fred         Baier: The Right Angle at the Ruthin Crafts Centre, the artist       received further commissions and was one of two artists commissioned to       create the Ruthin Art Trail &#8212; http://www.artfund.org/what-we-do/art-weve-helped-         buy/artwork/11812/cube-in-a-cube and http://www.ruthinarttrail.co.uk       [8].
The exploration of discipline through exhibition is a mode of enquiry       central to the work of UCA researchers.
In particular, research-led       critical enquiry in the field of textiles has led to the creation of new       work by many international practitioners including Maxine Bristow (UK),       Jeanette Appleton (UK), Anniken Amundsen (Norway), Lise Bjorne Linnert       (Norway), Machiko Agano (Japan), Reiko Sudo (Japan).
Amundsen has       collaborated on several projects and states that `each one has been       equally challenging and rewarding, and major factors in my artistic       development.'
[1] (p.16) [7], whilst Bristow has valued       the emphasis upon process, stating `the opportunity for open minded       speculative making is a luxury.
A project where the declared outcome is a       focus on the documentation of process as much as product, is therefore       something of a rare treat.
'[1] (p.26) [9].
UCA research has       enabled creative collaboration both within and beyond specific craft       disciplines.
Describing her collaboration with Anniken Amundsen on Through         the Surface (2004-5) and Cultex (2009), Japanese artist       Machiko Agano stated `I also experimented with some new developments, and       through much trial and error created a new way of working.
If I had not       been involved with this project, perhaps I would have waited much longer       to try out these new techniques.
In this sense, this project had a very       profound meaning for me personally' [3] (p.38) [6].
The       2010 exhibition Alice Kettle: Allegory, at the Crafts Study       Centre, then touring, curated by Olding, afforded the embroiderer the       opportunity to collaborate with the ceramicist Stephen Dixon in the       creation of new work.
The artist sold seven pieces of work with a combined       value of &#163;9,930 to private and public collections [10].
UCA       research has explored the bounds of what is understood as craft practice.
Collaborative research-led presentations include Desconocida: unknown,       a political art project by Norwegian textile and performance artist Lise       Bjorne Linnert (UCA Epsom, 10 Feb.-20 March 2009), and Side by Side,       a six-week residency project run by the CSC and the Siobhan Davies Dance       company that saw craft practitioner Helen Carnac work alongside and       collaboratively with dance practitioner Laila Diallo (CSC/Siobhan Davies       Studios, 2012) -http://www.siobhandavies.com/sidebyside.
UCA research on craft has led to sustained and enduring international       networks and collaborative enquiry [1].
Since 2001, AJTRC exhibition outcomes have toured major venues in the UK,       Japan and beyond and attracted an audience of over 600,000 visitors.
All       exhibitions have been extended and supported by interactive digital media,       websites, and publications that prioritise the artist's voice and document       their creative processes, as exemplified by the web journals created       during Cultex (2009) [3].
In 2011 the AJTRC launched the Transitions         and Influence Gallery of Contemporary Textile Artists &#8212; http://www.transitionandinfluence.com/gallery/home.html,       a curated website and directory dedicated to showcasing individual       practitioners.
While bringing new audiences to the work of craft       practitioners, the research activities of UCA have also led to the       purchase and acquisition of work by museums and collections.
These include       six pieces of work by the artists Aune Taamal, Agneta Hobin, Masae Bamba,       Hideaki Kizaki, Zane Berzina, and Dzintra Vilks featured in Cloth and         Culture Now (2008-9) being bought by the Lloyd Cotsen Textile Traces       Collection at the Museum of International Folk Art, Neutrogena Wing (Santa       Fe, USA) [4].
Work from previous projects is now in the       Contemporary Art Society Collection (six pieces) at Nottingham Castle Art       Gallery and Museum, and the National Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto.
Education, scholarship and research beyond the gallery are of central       concern to UCA researchers who have established and sustained       relationships with makers and practitioners over many years.
Olding had       written about the work of CSC exhibitor Martyn Brewster (Colour and         Form: Martyn Brewster, Peter Hayes and Phil Atrill, 2010) since 1997       before co-authoring the first monograph on the artist's work as a       printmaker.
Exploration of practice through publication is a key part of a       broader programme of practitioner and public pedagogy that offers an       intellectual infrastructure for the crafts.
Researchers have led an       extensive programme of Artists in Residence that since 2008 has supported       over 100 developing practitioners [2].
The programme is designed       to bring new professional practitioners into the wider community of the       university and its research centres and affords them the opportunity to       create, exhibit and sell new work.
2013 sees the launch of AIR 4,       the fourth Artist in Residence specific showcase and exhibition curated by       Olding at the CSC, and the appointment of The Morfudd Roberts Textile       Fellowship, which follows the Founder Fellowship of Modern Craft       undertaken in 2012 by Dr Stephen Knott.
Since 2010 the CSC has been a       partner in `Hothouse', a scheme run by the Maker Development Team of the       Crafts Council that draws upon specialist expert partners to mentor       emerging practitioners.
This partnership is undertaken as part of a wider       programme of practitioner development activities which have included:             Memory and Touch: an exploration of textural communication,         conference at RIBA, London (AJTRC, 2008)        Setting the Scene, symposium, in collaboration with London         Metropolitan University (CSC, 2013)        Unravelling: the symposium, in collaboration with Unravelled         Arts (CSC, 2013)        Working With/In Japan, public seminar series (AJTRC, 2010-14)        How to Sell Craft, workshop in collaboration with New Brewery         Arts, Cirencester (CSC, 2010)        How to write about Craft, workshops held across England, Wales         and the USA (Olding, since 2011) [2]           Since 2008 researchers at UCA have worked with eight MPhil/PhD students       whose research-led practice benefits from the platform and network of the       university's craft research.
Beverly Ayling- Smith, PhD student and       Graduate Assistant (AJTRC) has exhibited her work in Cloth &amp;         Memory (2012); a piece of this work, remembering, repeating and         working through, is now held in the permanent collection of the       Whitworth Art Gallery.
Ayling-Smith has also had a solo show at Gallery       Gallery, Kyoto, Japan (2013), and contributed `Cloth, Memory and Mourning'       to A. Nanda and P. Bray (eds.)
The Strangled Cry: The Communication         &amp; Experience of Trauma (Inter- Disciplinary Press, 2013) [5].
The development of audience through education is central to the work of       the AJTRC and CSC and is fundamental to a shared ethos of advocating craft       at all levels of the national curriculum, and in further, higher and       continuing education.
While the CSC has an ongoing educational programme       of lectures, seminars and school activities, all projects by the AJTRC       have specially commissioned teachers' packs targeted towards GCSE, AS/A       Level, and school and college visits.
In addition to this, exhibitions       offer educational guided tours and workshops aimed specifically at the       student practitioner.
Educational activities reach out beyond the       exhibitions and galleries, and contemporary craft practitioners are       central to, and benefit from this work.
In 2011-12, five craft artists       worked with the CSC to engage 239 students from three primary and three       secondary schools in Farnham, and evaluation of the education programme       noted that one school, Farnham Heath End changed their Scheme of Work to       include 3D making as a direct result of the workshop led by furniture       maker and CSC exhibitor Fred Baier [2] [8].
The Archives and Collections of the CSC and AJTRC extend the craft       research community and have supported 511 research visits to the CSC,       including repeat visits from scholars from America and Japan working on       specific collections.
The positioning of UCA, and in particular the       Farnham campus, as a centre of craft research and practice is evidenced by       the town council's recent decision to designate Farnham a `Craft Town'.
The designation was initially proposed by a seminar chaired by Olding on       behalf of the Crafts Council and Craft Net, entitled `How to Plan the Town       of Craft' (March 2011); this led to a policy paper `Crafts in Rural       Communities', published by the Crafts Council, which in turn led to the       collective civic redesignation of the town in 2013.
