     The main impact of this research has been achieved through a series of       recommendations applicable to design engineers, developers, and       authorities, by contributing significantly to achieving optimum long-term       performance of SUDS in terms of outflow quality, flow attenuation,       maintenance and perception of their acceptability.
Recommendations from       this research programme underpinned a range of guidance manuals targeted       at different professions.
This research will continue to improve urban       environments in terms of greater resilience to flooding and improved       environmental quality, as SUDS become more widespread in the UK and       internationally.
A policy change driven by the Water Framework Directive in favour of more       sustainable drainage was implemented early in Scotland.
With the       encouragement of the Scottish Government, Scottish Environment Protection       Agency (SEPA) and Scottish Water (SW), a Scottish Centre of SUDS       excellence was established.
This group was led by Professor Chris       Jefferies of Abertay, involved staff from six Scottish Universities and       had the purpose of informing users of the effects of decisions taken in       urban drainage.
Strategically, urban development was being constrained       because appropriately sustainable solutions could not be found to meet       societal and regulatory issues concerning environmental quality and       flooding.
The initial objective of the research funded by stakeholders and       undertaken by the SUDS Scottish Centre of Excellence was to determine the       principles by which SUDS could be implemented most successfully in       Scotland and this was later extended to the remainder of the UK, to other       European countries and even more broadly from 2013 onward.
Since 2005,       National (Scotland) policy has required all new developments to adopt       and/or change their drainage approach and methodologies to include the use       of SUDS.
However, prior to this, evidence of benefit and practical       implementation was not obvious and compelling to the number of different       stakeholder organisations involved in the requisite adoption of SUDS.
Therefore a series of prototype systems had to be constructed, their       performance monitored and results assessed.
Once this stage was underway,       guidance was prepared, professionals trained and a wide public debate       commenced.
There were three phases to Abertay's impact;     - 1998 to 2005 &#8212; a series of PhD and Masters field research programmes,       predominantly at Abertay, but also at partner universities benchmarking       performance of SUDS that was require for the implementation and policy       change     - 2005 to 2008 &#8212; the work was consolidated into guidance driven by       policy.
- 2008 - 2013 The group engaged with international programmes to       disseminate the outcomes nationally (UK) and internationally.
Specific impacts on public policies and services are as       follows (numbers refer to sources of evidence listed in section 5);     i) Public policy enabled through the monitoring programme.
New methods       and monitoring techniques were developed by the research at Abertay to       support the policy changes [1].
ii) SUDS are required by the Water Environment and Water Services Act       (2006) but the method of implementation was not clear.
Our research       informed the approach of SEPA to regulate SUDS through the Controlled       Activities Regulations and of SW in the development of a corporate       approach [1, 2].
iii) Delivery of a public service (by Scottish Water) has changed through       the development of a roll- out process and by means of costing the public       element of SUDS which are now part of `normal business' in Scottish Water.
The research was delivered into Scottish Water through KTP projects       KTP7116 and KTP7784.
Of specific societal importance, the `reasonable       cost' of drainage has been defined.
[2, 6].
The impact on international development policies is;     i) The impact continues through Abertay's involvement in the EU project       E2STORMED which commenced in early 2013 focusing on stormwater and energy       management using SUDS in six Mediterranean countries.
ii) Professor Jefferies presented a paper based on our research to the       24th Council of UN-Habitat early in 2013, which passed a resolution on       strengthening basic urban services [7].
Work with UN-Habitat continues       with a SUDS workshop in Kigali, Rwanda in May 2013 and the commissioning       of a drainage strategy for UN-Habitat [3].
The impact on practitioners and professional services are;     i) The SUDS design manual (CIRIA 2007) which was significantly informed       by our research is used by all practitioners in the field both in UK and       internationally (more than 40,000 downloads since publication in 2007).
[4, 5]     ii) SUDS for Roads &#8212; This design manual is targeted at road planners and       designers.
[8]     iii) A community interested in bridging the gap between research and       practice (SUDSnet) was created as a vehicle to disseminate the research of       the group.
This practitioner/ stakeholder network is still very healthy 6       years after the EPSRC grant (GR/S76816/01) finished.
