     This case study research and knowledge exchange undertaken by the Unit       has had a significant impact on local government organisations and the       public in terms of:            effecting changes to public policy and services       raising the awareness and understanding of key stakeholders       impacting on environmental policy debate       changing to the way key information is presented to stakeholders          Changes to public policy     A set of sustainability indicators were developed and are now published       and used by the Dundee City Council to ensure overall sustainability of       the Dundee Waterfront Development, the 3rd most active       regeneration project in the UK.
The University of Abertay Dundee developed       indicators for Dundee Waterfront as part of their Sustainability       Commission.
The Performance Management Framework and Single Outcome       Agreement's Performance Indicators populate the data for Sustainable       Development Benchmark Indicators.
In addition, Dundee City Council's       practise was changed through a series of interventions that were       implemented in the Council's project design and construction processes,       where the range of identified sustainability indicators could be       influenced.
This included a new requirement for site waste management       planning in Dundee City Council construction contracts (Dundee City       Council Policy statement), the introduction of a Sustainability Design and       Construction Checklist integrated within the Councils ISO 9001 Quality       Management System (Dundee City Council Quality Management System).
Impact on policy debate     The SAVE approach changed organisational policy as to how development       plans are communicated to the public, and influenced a data mapping       framework for development plans (project 6, 7 &amp; 9).
Fife Council are       developing a new approach to data mapping for development plans which is       built on the SAVE concept.
Our SAVE group defined the data mapping method       and directed the development of Fife Council's Planning Department's       communication strategy for strategic land allocations.
In a second       example, the SAVE method is being used by SEWeb to influence how Scottish       Environmental organisations share and present information to stakeholders.
The project included recommendations on aspects such as crowd sourcing and       mobile data access which are currently being implemented.
Raising the awareness and understanding of key stakeholders     Our research provided new insights into the practical application of       novel methods of simulation and visualisation of sustainability indicators       to a wide range of stakeholders, using interactive visualisation based on       computer games technologies.
The visualisation output of the       sustainability assessment of the Dundee Central Waterfront was used by       Scottish Enterprise to inform the public through presentations to       community groups and as exhibits at science festivals and art events (e.g.
Dundee Science Festival, Fife Science Festival).
It was also used by       Scottish Enterprise to communicate plans for the redevelopment of an area       of Dundee to potential developers.
Our SAVE platform has also been adapted       and developed for rural development: for example, the interactive       visualisation of Eden Estuary and Natura 2020 for Fife Coast &amp;       Countryside Trust has enabled effective engagement of stakeholders during       the development of coastal management practices incorporating realistic       scenarios.
Local Authorities have confirmed the value of this SAVE tool in       stimulating engagement for informed planning decisions.
Fife Council       commissioned the University to apply the framework to strategic land use       planning for the Dunfermline western edge development to support planning       meetings and stakeholder engagement sessions.
Through Project 6 the value       of our interactive visualisation tool has been recognised and it has       changed the way data collected by different agencies is communicated to       stakeholders including the public (the interactive visualisation tool will       be an exhibit at the Eden Estuary Visitor centre).
Project 8, was       commissioned by TAYplan "to help public sector bodies formulate policy in       relation to land use change" and the results have informed policy       formulation for the Strategic Development Plan for the TAYplan area.
