     The S-City VT case study research and knowledge exchange has had a       significant impact on local       government organizations and the public in terms of:            Raising the awareness and understanding of key stakeholders;       Increasing the ability of the stakeholders to make informed decisions;       Impacting policy debate on the environment;       Changing public policy and services;       Changing to the way key information is presented to stakeholders.
Raising the awareness and understanding of key stakeholders;       Increasing the ability of the stakeholders to make informed decisions       S-City VT was used by Scottish Enterprise to inform the public through       presentations to community       groups and as exhibits at science festivals and art events (Dundee Science       Festival, Fife Science       Festival).
It was also used by Scottish Enterprise to communicate plans       for the redevelopment of       an area of Dundee to potential developers.
The interactive visualisation       of Eden Estuary and       Natura 2020 for Fife Coast and Countryside Trust has enabled the effective       engagement of       stakeholders during the development of coastal management practices and to       develop realistic       scenarios, which can be communicated to all stakeholders.
The team was invited to present S-City VT to the Scottish Government,       Scottish Environment       Protection Agency, Fife Council and the regional planning authority       TAYplan.
Local Authorities       have confirmed the value of the tool in stimulating stakeholder engagement       to inform planning       decisions.
Fife Council have commissioned the University to apply the       framework to strategic land       use planning for the Dunfermline western edge development to support       planning meetings and       stakeholder engagement sessions.
Through Project 6 the value of the       interactive visualisation has       been recognized and it has changed the way data collected by different       agencies is communicated       to stakeholders including the public.
For example, a S-City VT-based       exhibit will be displayed at       the Eden Estuary Visitor centre.
Project 8, was also commissioned by       TAYplan "to help public       sector bodies formulate policy in relation to land use change" and the       results have informed policy       formulation for the Strategic Development Plan for the TAYplan area.
Impacting policy debate on the environment       Project 8, in collaboration with the Universities of Dundee and St       Andrews, was commissioned by       TAYplan Strategic Development Planning Authority "to help public sector       organisations formulate       policy and strategy in relation to landscape change".
Project 6, 7 &amp; 9       have helped change policy on       how to communicate development plans to the public as well as influencing       a data-mapping       framework for development plans.
The Abertay team was invited to workshops       to help develop the       data mapping concept and to contribute to the development of Fife       Council's Planning       Department's communications strategies.
More broadly projects 6, 7 &amp; 9       have engendered       discussions as to how creative technologies can be embedded in the       planning process to       encourage better engagement.
In the SEWeb (Life) Project (10) we provided       a visioning report to       this project which is already being used by SEWeb to influence how       Scottish Environmental       organisations gather, share and present information to and from       stakeholders.
The report helped       the partner organisations establish a clear, focused purpose for the site       and included       recommendations on aspects such as utilisation of social media,       crowdsourcing and remote       access (recommendations are now being implemented).
Project 11 (now       underway) will be used by       the Scottish Government as a tool that can be used to manage, control and       influence Scotland's       water resources.
Changes to public policy       Our research provided new insights into the effective consideration of       sustainability in real-life       decision making processes.
A set of sustainability indicators was       developed and are now       published by the Council to monitor the overall sustainability of the       Dundee Waterfront       Development.
In parallel a series of interventions were implemented in the       Council's project design       and construction processes where the directions of the sustainability       indicators could be       influenced.
Changes to the way key information is presented to stakeholders       TAYplan's vision is to widen stakeholder engagement and participation in       planning to foster a       sustainable TAYplan region.
A key element of this vision is enhanced       communication of       information in terms of both clarity and engagement.
TAYplan commissioned       us to develop better       information visualisation methods and toolsets as a direct result of       seeing S-City VT in the public       domain, including working with TAYplan to select 2D views of our 3D       visualisations for leaflet       production.
We have developed customised delivery of multivariate data       relating to alternative       Spatial and Green Network Strategies.
Furthermore given that TAYplan wish       to widen stakeholder       engagement we are currently migrating the sophisticated 3D visualisation       system underlying S-City       VT to the web, making the interactive plans available to users with       Internet access.
The recent       availability of web-based game libraries has now made possible this level       of interactivity.
