     Research from SUC is impacting the lives of children, parents and       teachers in Northern Ireland.
Northern Ireland: Policy and Practice     Evaluations conducted by SUC feature prominently in discussions about       raising literacy standards in NI [2,3].
Every School a Good       School: A Strategy for Raising Literacy &amp; Numeracy Standards       produced by the Department of Education (2008, p.14), notes that the SUC       evaluation highlights the added benefits this programme has for higher and       lower ability pupils.
The evaluation informed and reshaped the delivery of       literacy skills in four education and library boards comprising 461       primary schools in NI.
The SUC evaluation of the LPA retains prominence on       more than 50 primary school websites.
In affirming the close       correspondence between this programme and the revised early years'       curriculum, the Jolly Phonics evaluation led the NEELB to implement the       programme in all 209 primary schools within the board area [1].
Research Consultant PRAXIS CARE 2006 to present     2005/-.As a result of her extensive experience with evaluative research,       Dr Gray was invited to act as a consultant in educational research to       PRAXIS CARE (PC).
PC is the largest provider in Ireland of services for       adults and children with a learning disability and mental ill health.
Dr       Gray works with a small team of researchers in PC to involve children with       learning difficulties in research that affects aspects of their lives.
Children have been taught techniques for peer interviewing and       observations and reported their findings to service providers.
These       projects have produced educationally appropriate resource materials for       children with learning disabilities.
The Republic of Ireland     2010.
Dr Gray was the invited consultant to quality assure the new Early       Childhood Education degree (2011) offered by The Froebel Department of       Primary Education at the National University of Ireland, Maynooth.
Her       comments were used to refine and reshape the degree programme.
2011/2014.
She was subsequently invited to act in the role of external examiner to       Maynooth.
United Kingdom     2009/2013.
Visiting Professor (Child Development), by invitation, Dr Gray       was appointed to St Mark and St John University Plymouth (Marjon) in 2009.
Her appointment reflected the University's strategic imperative to       strengthen its publication profile and increase the corpus of staff       engaged in research.
[5] Dr Gray gave bi-annual keynote addresses       to invited audiences including local stakeholders, disseminated her       research findings to students on the MEd special needs pathway, led       research workshops for staff, gave one to one mentoring sessions to early       career staff, reviewed research proposals and advised on articles for       publication.
The success of her appointment can be measured in the       extension of her appointment from 3 to 5 years and the increase in staff       actively involved in scholarly activity.
Internationally     2011/-.
Dr Gray currently holds the prestigious position of Editor to The         International Journal of Early Years Education which publishes four       editions per year.
Formally the Chair of Child Care in Practice,       her expertise in journal management has led to a significant increase in       the number of articles received from internationally renowned academics       and a noticeable increase from international scholars to edit specialist       journal editions.
Approaches to join the editorial board are regularly       received from international academics keen to support the work of the       journal.
2013-.She was recently co-opted onto the board of the Centre for       Research in Early Education (Birmingham, 2013) and, with a group of       international scholars (Professors Bertram, Pascal, Formosinho), is       working to produce the first set of Ethical Guidelines and Code of Conduct       specifically for researchers, practitioners and scholars working in the       Early Years field.
The team will launch the Code at the European Early       Childhood Research Association Conference (EECERA) in Cyprus, September       2014 and publish it in both the EECERA Journal (2014) and the International         Journal of Early Years Education (Vol.
21, Iss.
3, 2014).
