     Research from SUC and QUB is impacting the lives of children, parents and       teachers in NI and internationally.
Northern Ireland: Policy and Practice       Dr Walsh's PhD thesis entitled The play versus formal debate: a study         of early years provision in Northern Ireland and Denmark (2000) led       to discussions with policymakers, educational advisors and practitioners       about the development of a more play-based approach in the early years of       primary school.
The evaluation of the Enriched Curriculum pilot project commissioned by       CCEA (2000) was designed to provide continuous feedback, on teaching and       learning in the early years of primary school.
From 2001-2010,       dissemination seminars were held with principals from the participating       schools, local authority curriculum advisers and representatives from the       Education and Training Inspectorate (ETI, NI) to keep them informed about       the on-going findings, so that they could fine-tune training and practice       for subsequent cohorts.
This project strongly shaped the Foundation Stage       Curriculum which became statutory for 4-5 year olds in 2007 and 5-6 year       olds in 2008.
[1,2]     Dr Walsh led the development of a set of professional development       resources based on Playful Structure (2009-2013), derived from the       Enriched Curriculum evaluation and subsequent studies, which are to be       distributed to all primary schools in NI and are freely available on the       NI Curriculum website as an aid to deliver the more play-based FS       Curriculum.
[3,4]     These pedagogical materials have informed the development of a Continuous       Professional Development (CPD) course for FS teachers.
The course was       devised by Dr Walsh delivered by SUC for the first time in 2012-2013 in a       number of Learning Hubs across the province.
SUC has developed a number of       regional partnerships with schools across the Province which are referred       to as `Learning Hubs'.
These schools act as regional venues where CPD       courses are delivered by Stranmillis staff.
To date approximately 150       teachers have completed the FS training course.
The positive impact of       this course has been recognised by the Department of Education in Northern       Ireland (DENI) with plans for further expansion currently being discussed.
[5,7]     Dr Walsh worked with curriculum development officers to formulate and       develop a pedagogical framework, which was developed into a poster format       and a series of information leaflets for parents that drew directly on the       sub-study from the EC evaluation "Thinking Skills in the Early Years"       (CCEA, 2007).
These resources were distributed to all primary schools and       nursery schools throughout NI (approximately 1000 settings) in 2008 and       are freely available on the NI Curriculum website.
[4,6] Dr Walsh       was invited to act as a reviewer for the Northern Ireland aspect of the       Creative Little Scientists project, a comparative study across nine       European countries (Creative Little Scientists, 2012) with a focus on       promoting creative thinkers in the early years.
A refined version of the QLI is also freely available on the NI       Curriculum website which has been promoted by Education and Library Boards       across NI and the feedback has been very positive.
All Early Years       associate assessors for the Education and Training Inspectorate have also       been trained on the use of the QLI (April, 2013) as have all prospective       Early Years teachers/professionals who undertake their training at SUC       i.e.
approximately 100 students per year.
[3,7]     Republic of Ireland       Play-based learning is also having impact in the RoI, where the Department       of Education and Skills commissioned additional work using SUC's methods       to develop policy and practice on teaching and learning in early years       settings.
[8, 9]     Within the Republic of Ireland, Dr Walsh acted as a consultant to Early       Childhood Ireland and Early Years in NI to inform the development of the       All Ireland Centre of Excellence Award (2012-2013), and developed an       evaluation tool for early years practitioners for use across the entire       Early Years sector (Report to funders, 2013).
She is also frequently       invited to speak at professional development seminars across Ireland on       playful learning.
United Kingdom       From 2007-2010, Dr Walsh, as a result of her research, was invited to act       as the educational consultant for the NI version of Sesame Street, `Sesame       Tree' which has been aired since August 2008 through CBeebies to a       national audience.
Dr Walsh advised on the content of the scripts and live       action films and participated in dissemination seminars.
Her contribution       also led to the development of a series of professional development       resource which have been distributed to all primary schools and       preschools (both voluntary and statutory) throughout Northern       Ireland.
The impact of this work is embedded in the large scale media       coverage that it received locally, nationally (Sunday Times) and       internationally (e.g.
the work was featured in the New York Times) and it       has also attracted the interest of national magazines Nursery World       and Nursery Management Today [10].
