     In August 2002, Biopta was spun out from GCU as a life sciences company       specialising in the provision of instruments and services to measure the       effect of novel drug candidates in human tissue samples.
Biopta continues       to grow at an annual average rate of 25%; as a profitable business it is       self-funding and employs a total of 19 staff at its Glasgow Headquarters,       and its USA subsidiary company.
As a shareholder, GCU receives quarterly       board reports from Biopta.
Biopta counts eight out of the top 10 major       pharmaceutical companies as its clients, achieving more than 70% of its       service revenues out with the UK.
With an intellectual property portfolio and fee for service model, Biopta       has leveraged funding from Scottish Enterprise (Proof of Concept and SMART       awards) (sources [S] 1, 2), to develop innovative drug delivery and       analysis prototypes.
The project was identified as one of the eight most       innovative technologies in Scotland at the Edinburgh International Science       Festival (2000), and won a regional John Logie Baird Award for Innovation       (2001).
An initial tranche of investment funding (&#163;575K; Braveheart       Ventures, Scottish Co-investment Fund, LINC Scotland and a Scottish       Executive SPUR grant) was followed by a further round of funding in 2008       (&#163;900K; Braveheart, Scottish Enterprise's (SE) Scottish Co-Investment Fund       and TRI Cap.
Biopta won the Glasgow Business Award for International       Business (2008) in recognition of overseas business.
A further round of       funding was closed in 2010, bringing the total investment in Biopta to       &gt;1.74 million [S1].
The details of Biopta's research data are commercially sensitive and       owned by companies sponsoring this research.
However, it is clear that the       PERF-EXION software and PM-1 drug delivery instrument forms one of       Biopta's key lines of business and has established Biopta as a world       leader in the use of fresh human tissues to better predict drug activity       prior to clinical trials.
As part of Biopta's research services, these       tools have been used to assess over 50 new drug candidates for safety and       efficacy in blood vessels, generating valuable information for       pharmaceutical companies developing drugs that may impact on the       cardiovascular system [S2, S4].
Furthermore, Biopta is the first Contract       Research Organisation worldwide to focus on the use of ethically-donated       living human tissues in the development of new drugs.
This profitable       company has delivered projects to 75 pharmaceutical and biotechnology       companies and has investigated over 400 potential new drugs for their       preclinical safety and efficacy [S2, S4].
Biopta's radical approach, using human tissues to develop new drugs, is       viewed as a major step forward in the creation of safe, effective       medicines.
Biopta's human tests are considered to be more reliable than       many of the animal models that continue to dominate the drug testing       process, because of its ability to study disease tissues from a range of       patient groups.
Biopta is pioneering in this regard, publishing       influential articles (Hillier and Bunton (2007) Functional human         tissue assays Drug Discov Today 12: 382-388; Hillier and Bunton       (2009) Could fresh human tissues play a key role in drug development?
Altern Lab Anim.
38: Supp 1:5-10).
Biopta has also contributed to policy       debate in Archibald et al (2011) (Safety of medicine and the         use of animals in research (2011) Lancet 378(9802)) and the House of       Lords (2009) and House of Commons (2010) [S3] in order to raise awareness       of the need for a coordinated effort to make tissues generated during       surgery (many of which are incinerated) more available to researchers for       the benefit of pharmaceutical development.
The economic value of this technology and testing is evidenced by the       jobs (19) created and retained by Biopta over a ten-year period.
Further,       the excellent staff development and training within Biopta has enriched       the skills and knowledge base of the wider Scottish labour force as       scientists move between companies.
For example, former employees of Biopta       have progressed to Executive Director positions at other SMEs in Scotland       (Arrayjet Ltd and Fios Genomics).
As part of its expansion into the North       American market Biopta Ltd has created a wholly-owned subsidiary company,       Biopta Inc. based in Beltsville, Maryland, USA, which employs two       full-time scientists and one part-time scientist.
The scientific and societal (e.g.
patients, healthcare) benefits of       Biopta's research activities have been justified and verified by approval       of the company as an ethically-approved UK Research Tissue Bank (Approval       number 07/S0704/45+5 (12/WS/0069)).
The importance of Biopta's work is       emphasised by the contribution of its data to the regulatory approval of       drugs for clinical trials or marketing authorisation, which requires       membership of the UK Department of Health's Good Laboratory Practice (GLP)       programme.
Biopta's established expertise in functional human tissue       studies and focus on translational science means it has become a partner       in the new &#163;20 million Stratified Medicine Scotland Innovation Centre       (SMS-IC) at the new South Glasgow Hospitals Campus, which involves a       consortium of universities, NHS Scotland and industry partners.
