     Our research1-6 has enhanced and shaped European policy (S1,       S2), National Policy (S4) and local       service provision (S6 and S7).
It has been vital in shaping policy       optimising testing service design       in ways that challenge barriers to testing, facilitate increases in HIV       testing and reduce       undiagnosed HIV.
Together these factors reduce new HIV infection at the       population level and       increase the health and well-being of those living with HIV, reducing AIDS       diagnoses and AIDS       deaths.
In the last decade across Europe late HIV diagnosis has reduced       (Mocroft et al., 2013) and       within the UK, HIV diagnosis amongst gay men has increased (HPA, 2012).
Moreover, within the       WHO European region, between 2010 and 2012, HIV testing amongst MSM       increased in 50% of       countries.
Equally, the number of AIDS cases has continued to decline in       Western Europe with       numbers stabilising in Central Europe.
This reduction directly relates to       increased HIV testing and       better access to treatments.
Our work has underpinned one of the ten principles in the WHO European       Region's (53 countries)       policy framework (S1) on scaling up HIV testing and       counselling across the region (aimed at policy-makers,       national AIDS programme planners and non-governmental organisations) which       was       presented at the European Parliament on World AIDS Day 2010.
It sets out       the essential       components to achieve universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, care       and support.
The       second policy principle `Expanded HIV testing and counselling must be       tailored to different       settings, populations and client needs' draws extensively on our research       quoting,4: "It is not so       much the changing medical aspects of HIV that shape contemporary testing       decisions, but the       social meaning and social consequence of HIV diagnoses" (p7494).
Other GCU work5 was cited and quoted in a 2011 report       commissioned by the European Centre for       Disease Control (a European Union agency which aims to strengthen Europe's       defences against       infectious diseases)(S2).
It summarised research concerning HIV testing       and counselling for       migrant populations and ethnic minorities in the region in order to inform       future policy and practice       to improve access to services for these groups.
The report concluded that       approaches to the       promotion and provision of HIV testing should address testing in community       settings, and focus       upon partnerships with communities and community organisations.
At a UK level, the National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE)       Public Health guidance on HIV       Testing9 (issued March 2011) draws directly and indisputably       upon research published by GCU.
This guidance was for NHS UK and commissioners, managers and practitioners       who have a direct       or indirect role in, and responsibility for, increasing the uptake of HIV       testing among MSM.
Their       recommendations were based upon systematic reviews of effectiveness,       cost-effectiveness and       qualitative evidence concerning interventions to increase the uptake of       HIV testing.
Several       evidence statements relate to the GCU research directly2,3 (evidence       statements 3, 8, 9, 10, 12,       13, 18; IDE (inference derived from evidence) (S3).
In addition, Professor Flowers was asked to       give expert testimony to discuss the contribution of the GCU work       regarding HIV testing within the       finalising of the guidance (S4) (http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/13413/53675/53675.pdf).
This guidance was later endorsed by `The House of Lords Select Committee on HIV       and AIDS       report (September 2011)'.
Similarly, he was asked to give expert testimony       to the Chief Medical       Officer of the UK on December 2nd 2012 regarding the future of       HIV public health policy.
In sum, the Unit's research has led to an ethical, socially and       culturally sensitive approach to HIV       testing policy in the UK.
The guidance and the concomitant changes in       service provision have       been associated with widespread increases in HIV testing within the UK.
Within Scotland the       research has had local significance in helping to change decisions to       provide HIV testing services       within community settings (for example the work of Terrence Higgins Trust       Scotland and their Fast       Test Clinic) rather than solely offering tests within genitourinary       medicine clinics and, to ensure that       HIV testing services in such non-clinical settings are socially and       culturally sensitive and are       shaped to reduce barriers to testing.
In this way, service providers such       as Terrence Higgins Trust       Scotland (S5) and Gay Men's Health (S6) have developed testing services in       line with the NICE       guidelines and WHO policy framework (see above) and also directly in       relation to the corpus of       work produced by GCU.
This partnership approach to impact has been complemented by research       dissemination to a wide       range of professional workers across Scotland (such as NHS Board Strategic       Leads for Sexual       Health; Health Promotion / Health Improvement Specialists; Primary Care       Staff; Social Work Staff)       (S6) to enable them to ensure that national, regional and local sexual       health policy is implemented       in ways which meet the specific sexual health needs of gay and bisexual       men in Scotland.
