     Research within NMAHP RU has led to considerable changes in prolapse       practice for       physiotherapists in the UK and internationally, including the treatment       provided and ways in which       prolapse and its symptoms are measured.
For example, women now receive       evidence-based       treatment [Source (S) 1,2], and therefore better treatment outcomes.
In       addition, their condition       and symptoms are more reliably measured and their progress with treatment       more accurately       monitored [S4-6], therefore again resulting in a better overall outcome.
Researchers' work in       improving measurement of prolapse has increased the rigour of ongoing       audits and evaluations,       with an impact on the wider clinical community [S4,6,8].
Evidence of       impact has been through       personal communication with clinical staff, and the results of an online       UK survey of women's       health physiotherapists' practice carried out in September 2013       (http://acpwh.csp.org.uk/news/2013/09/09/tell-us-about-your-prolapse-practice-survey).
Our research concludes that significant changes in practice have been       necessary, specifically, that       PFMT should be the first-line treatment for prolapse.
Patient services       have been directly improved       as a result of the research, for example in NHS Tayside which has adopted       PFMT as first-line       treatment for prolapse through the development of an integrated care       pathway [S1].
Here and in       other centres (22% in the recent online survey had a prolapse care       pathway), women who would       previously have had no treatment, pessary or surgery (associated with       side-effects and a high       prolapse recurrence rate) are now offered PFMT as a conservative treatment       option.
70% of UK       physiotherapists surveyed reported an increase in their prolapse referrals       in the last five years due       to increased awareness of PFMT as an effective treatment option [S3], and       48% reported changing       their practice as a result of our findings.
Copies of the POP-SS tool have been requested for use by clinicians       across the UK [S5], and 20%       of physiotherapists in our UK survey reported that they used it to monitor       patient progress.
NHS       Greater Glasgow and Clyde has included it in a recent update to their       clinical assessment tools       [S4].
Since 2012, POP-SS has also been recommended in the Australian       guidelines for pessary       care in the management of prolapse [S7].
A growing number of NHS       evaluations [S4,6], published       studies [S8] and ongoing funded studies (e.g.
the PROSPECT and VUE       randomised controlled       trials funded by NIHR HTA, and the ProLong longitudinal cohort funded by       Wellbeing of Women)       have used this tool for symptom data collection.
Following our findings       that the POP-Q is reliable       for use by physiotherapists, its use has increased: 15% of survey       respondents reported using       POP-Q to monitor patient progress, and NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde has       now formally       introduced the use of the POP-Q in their routine physiotherapy assessments       [S10].
As a direct       result of the research, there has been a considerable increase in routine       use of prolapse outcome       measures in UK clinical practice.
This is providing practitioners with       more accurate information       about women's prolapse condition to better inform treatment decisions and       improve the services       provided.
The prolapse research programme has significantly informed international       health policy and       guidelines.
Following consultations with professional representatives, the       WHO International       Consultation on Incontinence expert committee functions to promote       improvements in the       management of incontinence and prolapse worldwide through evidence-based       recommendations.
Recommendations must be suitable for use in all parts of the world,       recognising that the health       services' resources differ widely between countries.
The resulting       clinical manual is updated every       four years and is vital to clinicians in the field of incontinence and       prolapse, providing algorithms to       guide practice.
Professor Hagen has been an expert committee member on the       3rd, 4th and 5th       editions of the manual.
The publication includes findings from the Unit's       underpinning research       studies and the broader programme of prolapse research, facilitating reach       to a worldwide       audience of practitioners.
It is available via the European Association of       Urology and International       Consultation on Urological Disease (http://www.icud.info/incontinence.html)       websites.
Initial       distribution of the 5th edition has been to 5,000 clinicians       from over 200 countries, including all the       member states of the United Nations.
Further research relating to PFMT as a preventative intervention for       prolapse has been funded       (Wellbeing of Women): PREVPROL, a trial of the effectiveness of PFMT for       the prevention of       prolapse with two-year follow-up, will complete in December 2013.
The       expertise in trials relating to       PFMT has contributed to the successful funding of a further multicentre       trial, the OPAL trial,       extending the model to women with urinary incontinence.
(&#163;1,970,000, NIHR       HTA).
