     Our reach has been broad moving from the treatment of patients in their       own homes to NHS and Government reports, to BBC promoted children's       movement games.
Our work has shown impacts on the following:            Public Policy and Services: by influencing the formation of government         strategy for the future delivery of health services in the community at         National and UK government level.
Health: by providing our technology for rehabilitation in the home to         patients whose medical outcomes and quality of life were improved as a         result of using it.
Commerce by working with a company (NUMIKO) to create and then sell         their series of physical activity music games to the BBC for their         CBeebies website.
As news of our work spread we were invited to take part in public       festivals and related events.
For example, we have demonstrated our       technology at the UK Parliament (2013) [C6], The Edinburgh Science       Festival (2013), Big Bang Scotland (2013) and Glasgow's 3rd       Active Ageing Week (2012).
In the next section we report in more detail the particular impacts that       we have had and the beneficiaries.
The PTH report (see underpinning research) CHAPs [C1 &amp; C2] was also       highlighted in a national report commissioned by Scottish Telehealth and       Telecare Centre and NHS Scotland [C3].
The report authors comment that the       research results reported upon in our PTH report clearly demonstrate the       value of being able to capture the impact on one person of a physical       activity scheme via mobile/wireless technology.
The Scottish Telehealth       report was also cited by a UK government report [C4] as regards the best       long term strategy for health, care and wellbeing.
This demonstrates that       our research has had an impact on public policy and services.
Our work [2,3,4] on the MRC project [F2] into rehabilitation technologies       led to the design of a rehabilitation technology for knee replacement,       falls and stroke patients.
The technology has been used by surgeons,       physiotherapists and patients in the Greater Glasgow and Clyde areas at       NHS Lanarkshire, NHS Golden Jubilee National Hospital Clydebank and the       Glasgow Falls service.
The technology was given to patients along with the       usual standard care provide by these services.
The technology has now been       used in the home successfully by over 80 patients after knee replacement       surgery and after a fall.
A Orthopaedic consultant surgeon [C5] at one of       the hospitals said that: "Our patients have benefited from this technology       as we could monitor the patients from a distance, see their progress on       the screen, and quickly talk and see (through the video conferencing part       of the software) them and their movement and if necessary readmit them to       hospital if problems arose."
This technology was the first to demonstrate that recently discharged       patients could monitor their own rehabilitation programme in their homes       and that they benefited from improved clinical outcomes as a result e.g.
improved range of movement, walking speed and balance, all of which are       important for daily living activities.
Alongside the independent clinical       measures that showed improved outcomes from using our technology the       patients also said that they had "an improved quality of life" according       to EQ5D scoring (EQ5D is a standardised instrument for use as a measure of       health outcome) which is another example of health impact.
The LLHW project, Envisage [F2] was selected to be showcased as one of       the 9 ground breaking multidisciplinary projects of the UK's seven       Research Councils at the UK Parliament.
The event was hosted by the Chair       of the Parliamentary Science and Technology Committee and the Chair of       Research Councils UK.
The project was the only one selected from over 30       current projects in the LLHW programme due to its innovative design and       potential economic and health impacts.
Both were impressed by the work of       the project team and its already occurring impact and the potential for       its impact to rapidly expand.
In addition to this praise the project has       also recently been awarded the "Translating Research Award" by the Chair       of "AGE" the cross research council advisory group of experts on aging.
The project was praised for its clinical utility and value to older       adults, its innovative concepts and its impact in the field of health and       wellbeing [C6].
In 2011 we were approached by Numiko, a ground breaking digital design       company based in Leeds, UK, the company has 26 members of staff and is       famous for its innovative digital communications.
They solve digital       problems for their clients through user research, design and technology       across digital platforms.
GCU worked with this award-winning digital       agency, to develop the Sing-a-long series of online web based physical       activity music games, the games are a presenter-led interactive musical       activity based around nursery rhymes and activity songs.
The purpose of       the games is to promote physical activity to children as a fun and       engaging activity rather than only undertaking physical activity as a       competitive endeavour.
GCU worked with Numiko to develop and test a set of       three physical activity games set to music that were sold to the BBC in       2011 and have now been made available on the Cbeebies website [C9].
Numiko       said GCU was their first choice for the collaboration.
The product manager       at Numiko at the time of development but now a product manager at the BBC,       said: "We were so impressed with the team at Glasgow Caledonian       University, the level of expertise and the facilities there".
They were       great to work with and are so passionate, it's really inspiring."
[C10]
