     EDF Energy owns 8 nuclear power stations which supply 22% of the       electricity generated in the UK.
These power stations suffered eight       in-service cable failures over a period of two years prior to working with       GCU, causing huge financial losses due to forced replacement and reduced       revenue.
Investigations by independent specialist companies indicated that       localised insulation degradation was responsible for the problems and that       the insulation of other similar cables at the station might also be       significantly degraded due to insulation defects during manufacture.
The       high level of electrical noise interference proved to be too great a       challenge for commercial service providers aiming to undertake PD testing       of the condition of the cables in service.
EDF Energy learned of GCU's       expertise in this area, having been present at the 2009 UHVnet Conference,       where Professor Zhou was presenting a plenary speech on the application of       the wavelet technique to cable PD data denoising.
Professor Zhou and the research team at GCU were commissioned to       undertake a comprehensive measurement of the cables in eight switchboard       rooms in Torness through an eight day consultancy project.
Although       challenges remained to be a significantly high level of noise, tests       proved that the use of non-intrusive techniques developed at GCU, as       described in [1-5] were able to identify PD activity in system components       and distinguish PD activities from noise, in addition to providing a       specific indication of the location of the source of PD.
GCU's work       identified insulation problems which could be rectified.
Following the consultancy work at Torness power station, EDF Energy then       provided further funding support (June 2011 - June 2014) which enabled GCU       to develop a portable cable PD monitoring system.
The hardware of the       instrumentation and the software package, capable of detecting PDs with a       magnitude of under 10 pico-Coloumb has been developed at GCU.
The system included high sampling rate (100M Sample/s) and high       resolution (12 bits) data acquisition unit, second generation wavelet       based data processing and denoising, K-means based PD pattern recognition,       trending analysis, database management, and insulation defect diagnostics       [1-6].
The prototype and the first version of the software package was       completed in December 2012 and is still under further development, has       been applied to Hunterston, Sizewell B and Hinkley Point B nuclear power       stations.
During the measurement campaigns, it was demonstrated that the       cable PD monitoring system can not only detect PD activities emanating       from cables but it is also capable of detecting and distinguishing PDs       originating from motors located hundreds of metres away from the       measurement point.
In comparison with the existing practice of       requirements for retrofitting on-line monitoring units, while power plant       was off service, the technique allows the medium voltage motors driving       gas cciculators and cooling water pumps at EDF Energy to be condition       monitored much more conveniently and at significantly reduced cost.
As a       result, EDF Energy decided to fund GCU (Feb 2013-Sept 2016) to develop an       add-on software package for PD based motor insulation monitoring and       condition diagnostics.
EDF Energy's condition monitoring practice has been significantly       improved as a result of GCU's continued activities because the PD       monitoring system underpinned by GCU research has enormous technical and       economic advantages over those available from commercial service providers       as evidenced in the testimonial letter.
Technically the GCU work enabled       them to carry out regular PD testing which would otherwise impossible.
Financially the research work, with potential of identifying incipient       faults allowing timely maintenance and replacement, can help save them       millions of pounds in avoided outages due to plant failures.
As a visiting professor to Wuhan University, China, a top 10 university       in China, Prof. Zhou also applied the same technique to Wuhan Electrical       Power Company and successfully identified two incipient faults, leading       the company to deploy the technology as a routine test technique for the       500 plus kilometres of high voltage cables which supplies power to a       region with over 10 million people.
Potentially this can save the company       tens of millions of Chinese Yuan a year through reduced workload which was       required to patrol the cable circuits twice a day, in addition to       providing improved effectiveness which, in turn, leads to better       reliability.
