     Impact from the Underpinning Research have been achieved through the       deliverables of an       industrial research and development contract with Doble Engineering [1], a       global company that       delivers diagnostic test instruments and knowledge services for the       electrical power industry.
To       date, the contract has developed and delivered three new condition       monitoring products, the       PDS100, which Doble launched in 2010, and the DFA500 and DFA300, launched       October 2013       [2].
The research impact has provided 1) increased revenue for Doble through       product sales and       service provision, 2) improved condition based maintenance for global       power utilities resulting in a       reduction in operational and safety risk, and 3) increased revenue for       contract manufacturing       companies based in UK and Norway.
Doble Engineering became aware of the research and the specific knowledge       and expertise       resulting from the EPSRC project through a technology evaluation of       condition monitoring research       within UK Universities and companies that was carried out at National       Grid.
For GCU, Doble       Engineering provided an ideal channel to maximise the extent and scope of       the research impact       due to their global distribution and support service in over 110       countries.
The research and development contract was established with Doble in 2008       with the objective of       developing innovative condition monitoring instruments based on the       Underpinning Research       carried out at GCU.
The PDS100, launched 2010, is a handheld surveillance       tool for the detection       of RF emissions arising from electrical insulation breakdown.
The PDS100       provides an easy and       cost effective method to carry out a complete survey of the levels of       partial discharge (PD) within a       substation and into identify apparatus at risk of failure.
The DFA 300 and       DFA500 are the world's       first portable acoustic analyzers that combine acoustic and RF sensing for       Gas Insulated       Substations.
The Underpinning Research, described in section 2, provided the knowledge       for the design of the       hardware platform, the software algorithms, and the application software       of the PDS100, DFA500       and DFA300.
The signal analysis implemented in the PDS100 resulted in       Doble submitting a US       patent in 2008 [3] with GCU and Doble as co-inventors.
The main benefit to Doble Engineering from the launch of the instruments       has been financial       through an increase in revenue from product sales and leasing and       increased service provision to       clients.
Due to commercial confidentiality Doble are not able to provide       any financial information       relating to the product sales or service provision.
However, the value of the impact to Doble may be demonstrated through       their on-going investment       in Glasgow Caledonian University and in December 2012 Doble signed a three       year strategic       research partnership and invested &#163;1.2 million in an Innovation Centre at       GCU [4] "GCU is the key         research and development partner in Doble's Innovation Center for         On-line Systems (ICOS)....         providing key new technologies and know how to Doble that result in         state of the art products and         solutions reaching customers throughout the global electric power         industry."
[5] In addition to the       direct investment in GCU, Doble has started recruiting engineers for a new       office in Glasgow that       will work closely with the Innovation Centre at GCU and support New       Product Development and       Introduction.
The PDS100 has been widely adopted by the global client base of Doble,       examples of whom       include National Grid (UK), Polaris Diagnostics &amp; Engineering (UK),       ESBI (Ireland), ELIA       (Belgium), Shell/Cofely Refinery (Netherlands), Israel Electric       Corporation (Israel), Qatalum       Aluminium Smeltery (Qatar), ESKOM (South Africa), Fingrid (Finland),       NewPower Diagnostics       (Australia) [6], Precision Engineering Services (Pakistan), and American       Transmission Company       (USA).
A transformer specialist provided the following statement: "Use         of the PDS100, in partial         discharge detection, is a significant development in the diagnostic tool         box and provides         considerable cost saving in reducing the requirement for system outages         and the installation of         expensive in-situ sensors."
[7].
In addition to creating impact through new product development, GCU has       also worked with Doble       in the development of the surveillance methodologies and best working       practices disseminated       through articles in the international trade press [8], presentations at       Doble Client Conferences and       a series of international workshops that have trained engineers in power       utilities that have been       provided by GCU on behalf of Doble.
The research impact has also resulted in significant financial benefits       to a number of electronic       assembly companies that Doble have used for the outsourced manufacturing       of the instruments       including Kelvinside Electronics (KEL) [9] in the UK and others in Europe.
Due to commercial       confidentiality Doble have requested that the financial impact of these       contracts remains       confidential.
