     The Harefield to Southall Gas Pipeline in London was a major civil       engineering project undertaken by murphy Pipeline Ltd involving the design       and construction of 18km x 1220mm diameter gas pipeline and connection       into the existing network.
The pipeline was laid in tunnels under major       arterial roads, railways (including London Underground), water courses and       the Grand Union Canal     In summary, the benefits for MPL of using the technology developed from       GCU research were:            Savings of &#163;1.5M on one project       Environmental impact &#8212; A CEEQUAL Outstanding Achievement Award 2011         for Waste Management.
(Low carbon footprint, a reduction of 5000 tonnes         on one project)       Establish best practice in the sector       Provide competitive contract tenders to a value of &#163;30M for projects         worldwide.
The backfill technique developed using the research and design at GCU was       first used in tunnels in a project to meet rising gas demand in West       London, where Murphy Pipelines Ltd was contracted by National Grid to       construct an underground, high-pressure, steel pipeline between Harefield       and Southall.
As well as providing the additional peak capacity necessary       to meet licence conditions, the pipeline strengthens security of supply       for customers in West London by ending their reliance on a single source       of high-pressure gas supply.
In order to meet engineering and safety requirements Murphy Pipelines Ltd       (MPL) had to find a way to provide mechanical support for a gas pipeline       running along underground tunnels from Harefield to Southall comprising:       18.2 km of 1220mm diameter gas pipeline, 3 segmental tunnels approx       2.225km and 8 pipejacks approx 0.935km     Conventional methods for support and backfilling were impractical and       time consuming, therefore pneumatically conveying a dry particulate       material was considered.
The research and expertise in pneumatic conveying residing in Glasgow       Caledonian University, as highlighted on the website www.particulatesolidshandling.com,       led MPL to commission GCU to undertake an initial feasibility study       starting in May 2006 involving simulation of a proposed conveying system,       followed by pneumatic conveying and wear assessment trials in our solids       handling and pneumatic conveying test labs, finishing in September 2007.
GCU provided unique conveying characteristics for a range of conveying       configurations and distances allowing the most appropriate particulate       material and conveying technology to be selected.
Initially, estimates of pipe bore and gas flow rates were made for       required conveying distances by scaling published data for a similar       material and by use of a computer model developed at GCU which       demonstrated the potential of the method to meet the required duty.
A pneumatic conveying system at GCU was successfully used to test the       performance of potential backfill materials through different pipeline       configurations.
An established scaling procedure was carried out on the data from       experimentally determined conveying characteristics for a change in       pipeline length and a change in pipe bore.
Conveying characteristics were       generated for seven different design configurations of varying length and       pipe bore.
A particular design configuration was highlighted in       discussions with Murphy Pipelines as being the most likely or favoured       design.
The application of GCU's research was challenging due to the complexity       of the design and operation of systems; for example, very regular changes       in pipeline lengths as the tunnel is filled will result in dramatic       changes to the optimal operating point and the likelihood of pipeline       blockages and failure of operations is significant if the system is not       correctly designed and operated.
Based on the GCU design parameters and recommendations, MPL commissioned       the manufacture of a tunnel backfill system from Aptech Ltd, a specialist       in the design, supply and installation of particulate solids handling       equipment based in Leicestershire.
The traditional method used for tunnel filling by cement grouting but       this comes at a high price environmentally and financially.
Following the       work at GCU dry sand was used to fill the large diameter tunnels on the       project.
As well as being cheaper to buy and work with, the embodied       carbon associated with its production is 60 times less than that of grout.
A recycled glass product called EcoSand was also used as an innovative and       more sustainable alternative to sand.
The carbon saving was equivalent to       that of sand, but with the added benefit of making use of a waste product       instead of a non-renewable resource.
Being quicker to install, this       technology represented a 10-week saving on the project programme, as well       as saving 5,000 tonnes of embodied carbon.
This, in part, made the       Harefield to Southall Gas Pipeline Project a Winner of a CEEQUAL       Outstanding Achievement Award 2011 for Waste Management.
The gas pipeline       became operational in December 2009.
