     A.
Informed UK cereal industry on Good Agricultural Practice to reduce         fusarium mycotoxins       Results of the research were used in the production of the Food Standards       Agency's The UK Code of Good Agricultural Practice to Reduce Fusarium         Mycotoxins in Cereals and the leaflet Code of Good Agricultural         Practice for the reduction of mycotoxins in UK cereals which was       distributed to all cereal growers in the UK.
The results were also used to       develop the HGCA-Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board Guidelines         to minimise risk of Fusarium mycotoxins in cereals.
B.
Provided a due diligence tool to assess risk in UK wheat crops       The HGCA Risk Assessment for Fusarium Mycotoxins was developed       based on the output from the HAU research.
The Risk Assessment became a       requirement for UK cereal assurance schemes with results reported on grain       passports.
The majority of UK wheat for human consumption is covered by       assurance schemes and must have a grain passport with a risk assessment       score reported for each consignment of wheat delivered to mills.
Implementation of the advice and risk assessment by UK farmers has led to       the impact that fewer loads of wheat sent by farmers for processing for       human consumption have been rejected due to mycotoxin contamination above       the EU permitted limits.
This has led to less food-grade wheat grain       wasted.
The main beneficiaries have been farmers, because wheat grain       downgraded from food use receives a lower price.
Thus the impact is also       on the income of farmers.
There is also a cost in additional sampling,       testing and haulage for the whole cereal chain.
The HGCA commissioned an independent audit of the financial benefit of       this research (DTZ, 2010).
These benefits have been independently       estimated as worth &#163;26 million to the UK farming and food industry for       2010.
The HGCA Chairman wrote a letter of endorsement for Professor       Edwards in 2011 stating that `The industry owes a lot of its current good       practice to his research work...'.
C. Informed European legislation       All mycotoxin results were reported to the European Food Safety Authority       (EFSA) where they are used, in combination with all other submitted data       from Member States, to assess the European population exposure to fusarium       mycotoxins.
This data is used to formulate opinions by EFSA to questions       raised by the European Commission Working Group on Agricultural       Contaminants (WGAC).
Based on these opinions the WGAC determine the need       for, and set maximum legislative limits if needed.
