 These projects have contributed to improved OSH practices leading to reduced accidents in the UK construction sector and internationally.
The development from 'research to practice' is catalogued below, followed by the specific impacts.
Chronology from publication to adoption in industry Publication of the 'Gateways' research coincided with a knowledge transfer conference with HSE and GCU at their Glasgow Campus on 24th June 2004, and joint press release.
In 2005, the research team were invited to make a presentation to the then head of HS&amp;E at the global construction firm SKANSKA's Head Offices [3].
This resulted in SKANSKA adopting the Gateway Model for OSH on all PFI and major contracts.
Publication of the 'Worker Engagement' research coincided with a knowledge transfer conference with HSE and GCU at HSE's Head Office (Rose Court, London) on 20th September 2006, in which the then Head of HSE Construction Division spoke [7].
This was followed by a joint press release.The international Construction Project Management firm MACE collaborated with the research team on this work and subsequently implemented the 'Feedback Board' (developed by the research team) on all sites to show how worker suggestions and requests were dealt with [6].
In 2008 the work led to guidance for HSE and CITB on worker engagement (Part of CDM 2007 Regulation guidance), available for download on the CITB website [4].
Dissemination of the 'Communication with Migrant Workers' took the form of two pieces of CITB training material.
'Critical Safety Communication' (Module F5; CITB OSH publication 'GE700' Construction Site Safety Manual) was published 2009 [10], and delivered to 100,000+ of construction managers, supervisors and professionals as part of standard industry training.
This was supplemented by a suite of pictorial tool-box-talks (GT701).
Details of subsequent impact  Health and Welfare MACE, a company employing over 3,700 people, operating in 69 countries and with a turnover in the region of &pound;1bn, collaborated on the Worker Engagement project in 2006/07.
Since 2008 they used the 'Feedback Board' system in all of their sites.
This has become a critical motivator, increasing buy-in from site workers and contributing to reduced accident rates; the REF period from 2008 to 2013 has seen accident incident rates (AIR) fall to 3.5, which is roughly half the industry average and about 30% of MACE's 2006 figures [6].
Skanska, another leading global player, with 56,700 employees and EUR15bn turnover have adopted the Gateway Model to plan for OSH.
Their Lost Time Accident Rate for 2012 has dropped by 50% compared to 2005 [3].
General uptake of GCU research in industry is further demonstrated by Lend Lease and Morgan Sindall [9] who now have 'Feedback Boards' on all sites.
Public policy and services The research has led to legal changes, with the UK Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007 being modified to reflect the good practice developed.
Specifically, the HSE and CITB (Government appointed bodies) and other organisations have incorporated the recommendations from the research in a number of industry guidance publications including: CDM 2007 Industry Guidance; Annex H (involving the workforce); published 2008 (Note GCU acknowledgment at foot of last page) [4].
Construction (Design &amp; Management) Regulations 2007: Industry Guidance for Designers (CITB- Construction Skills) with use of Gateways [1].
SaferDesign.Org: STAGE (Safety Targeted Assessment via Gateway Evaluation) [2].
Critical Safety Communication (Module F5); CITB-Construction Skills GE700 (Construction Site Safety Manual); published 2009 [10] and part of the 'Site Managers Safety Training Scheme' (SMSTS) cited in HSE competence criteria (CDM Approved Code of Practice) for construction professionals (http://www.hse.gov.uk/pubns/priced/l144.pdf).
Practitioners and services The Critical Safety Communication (Module 5) in the Construction Site Safety Manual referenced above is now used by over 100,000 construction managers, supervisors and professionals every year, since 2009, as part of standard industry training [8].
The method has influenced the use of images to communicate OSH information to a multi-cultural workforce as common practice on construction projects e.g.
the Olympics construction programme [7].
Since publication (2009), the percentage of migrant workers killed or injured in the UK construction industry has reduced from 16% to 4% [7].
International The companies adopting the practices recommended in the research have international operations and have applied these in all of the countries in which they operate [3, 6, 9], thereby introducing the benefits of improved accident rates in construction in these communities also.
The international reach of UK OSH guidance is substantial due to the country's standing in OSH performance, e.g.
influencing Australia ('Gateways' guidance), Hong Kong (worker engagement practices), South Africa (Gateways), and North America (worker engagement).
