  Our insistence on the centrality of socio-cultural issues surrounding OER practice has impacted on the provision of professional services in open learning practices nationally and internationally, on the culture of funding bodies nationally and internationally, and on public policy on transparent government in the UK.
Internationally, our work has impacted on provision of services in institutions embedding OER into their curriculum approaches.
For example, the Free Technology Academy, a consortium betweenopen universities in The Netherlands, Catalu&ntilde;a and Norway, is basing its approach to its OER repository on the outcomes of the CD-LOR project [A].
In Estonia CD-LOR findings informed the information architecture of the LeMill national repository and authoring platform and hence the basic processes of OER authoring and release [B].
In the US the National Science Digital Library has been influenced by CD-LOR to include a third, social, phase in its audit of Learning Application Readiness [C].
In Australia, "The ...CD_LOR project provided some of the seminal research ... on the use and design of ... repositories.
When the Australasian Society for Computers in Learning in Tertiary Education (ascilite) was contracted by the ... Australian Learning and Teaching Council to develop design principles for an online repository we drew on the well-developed outcomes of CDLOR to focus on the development of an engaged community of learners rather than a repository alone" (former Vice-president ascilite) [D]  Our work has impacted on culture in the JISC, shaping policy that underpins their competitive funding programmes for teaching development in Open Educational Resources and Digital Literacies, which support the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills online learning agenda.
Based on the outcomes of our Learning Literacies in a Digital Age project (LLiDA), and a scoping study that the JISC subsequently commissioned from one of the LLiDA consultants, Beetham, JISC established a UK-wide &pound;1.5M programme of work during 2011-13 called Developing Digital Literacies.
The call adopted the definition of digital literacies we developed in the LLiDA project, and the associated briefing paper refers bidders to our LLiDA recommendations and framework [E].
The JISC/HEA Open Educational Resources programme (UKOER, approx &pound;15M in total nationwide, 2009-2012) which involved over 90 UK HEIs also drew on our work [F].
The initial funding call for Phase 1 in 2009 adopted Littlejohn, Falconer and McGil 's (2008) definition and categorisation of educational resources and also referred bidders to the outputs of our CD-LOR project for structured guidelines for setting up repositories [G].
Throughout our work on synthesis and evaluation of the UKOER programme, we worked closely with the JISC, and the funding calls for Phases 2 and 3 show the immediate impact of our findings and developing conceptual framework.
LLiDA is also referenced in the calls for these funding rounds.
Our broadening of the concept of practices around OER to Open Practices was first presented at the JISC OER programme meeting in May 2011, and the funding call for UKOER Phase 3 in July 2011 builds on this new understanding, stating, "The key findings that bidders should be aware of are: Based on the findings of the first two Phases of work, we now conceptualise open educational resources as a component of a wider field of "open academic practice", encompassing the many ways in which higher education is engaging and sharing with wider online culture" [H].
Summarising the importance of our work, a JISC programme manager, judged, "The synthesis and evaluation of the &pound;15m UKOER programme was used iteratively to improve the programme as it ran, and stands in its own right as the world-leading resource concerning the implementation of open practices in institutions."
[F]  Our impact at UK level has had an impact on the thinking of policy makers at European Commission level.
Our vision for lifelong learning in 2030 and SWOT summary, derived from our OER4Adults project and UKOER Evaluation and Synthesis, formed the core of a recent European Commission Joint Research Centre workshop to develop a Roadmap for Open Education for Lifelong Learning in 2030 and provided empirical evidence to support the EC's "Opening-up Education" initiative launched in mid-2013 [I].
A Head of Sector, DG Education and Culture, European Commission, writes, "[you] confirmed the dominance of EN and FR language in all initiatives and that a lot should be done to make OER available in smaller language groups.
It also suggests that little is known (or less) about initiatives not linked to higher education.
This, too, has implications to policy ...I also came to the conclusion that it is important in every occasion to agree what we mean by adult learners and adult learning...we are working on this topic so we will certainly use the study" [J]  Through our direct impact on the JISC and its funding streams, our research has had impact on practitioners and professional services around open learning practices across the UK.
Phases 1 and 2 of the UKOER programme alone involved over 90 institutions in England and Wales [K].
By feeding our UKOER Evaluation and Synthesis findings through into the JISC OER infoKit we have maintained this influence beyond the end of the funded period.
The infoKit informs and explains OER and the issues around them for managers, academics and learning support.
Google analytics (20,000+ unique visitors Nov 2009-April 2013) show that the infoKit is widely recognised [L].
We have had a direct impact on practitioners and professional services in at least six UK HEIs who have initiated support for digital literacies, embedding outcomes of the LLiDA project: the universities of Liverpool, Leeds, West of London, London Metropolitan, Bournemouth and Plymouth [M].
For example, the University of Plymouth's JISC Building Capacity project (2010/11) stated that "One of the key elements... was learning from the JISC funded Learning Literacies for a Digital Age (LLiDA) project... By using high profile areas linked to strategic projects, such as the LLiDA institutional audit tool, the adoption of artefacts was highly visible within the institution, which aided take up'"[N].
The LLiDA project has had an impact on public policy, informing Government thinking on transparent government, via its inclusion in a 2011 report commissioned by the Cabinet Office, where LLiDA outcomes were used to justify support for intermediaries to interpret government data to a population generally lacking in digital literacy: "Data literacy is indeed an issue, and is generally, like all kinds of literacy, a good thing to be encouraged (cf.
e.g.
Beetham et al 2009 [the LLiDA report], which talks of digital literacy, or McAuley et al 2011).
It would certainly make transparency more likely to empower people....
If there is a lack of data literacy in a society, it does not invalidate a transparency programme.
Instead it underlines the importance of a competitive set of creative intermediaries" [O].
