      Archival sources unearthed during research on the history       of religious and ethnic peripheries, the Atlantic economy and the slave       trade were employed in an exhibition - 'Looking Back       to Move Forward: Slavery and the Highlands' - at       the Highland Archives Centre (HAC), Inverness, between 7.12.11 and 7.2.12.
The exhibition was viewed by more than 400 people over twelve weeks       (confirmed by the Education and Outreach Coordinator at HAC).
Professional       historians, archivists and community researchers worked with S6 pupils       from Inverness Royal Academy to build the exhibition and chart the       connections between the Atlantic slave trade and the Highlands and       Islands.
The exhibition team included the Education and Outreach       Coordinator at HAC, the Head of History at Inverness Royal Academy, a       lecturer from the University of the Highlands and Islands, a Highland       councillor and researcher on Highland links with slavery.
At the launch of       the exhibition, the Academy pupils spoke about what the project meant to       them and what they felt about working with the project team.
Representatives from the Africa Scotland Centre also attended and stressed       the importance of such projects in promoting contacts between communities       and in providing an opportunity for young Caribbean and African people in       Scotland to gain access to aspects of their history.
In examining the       links between plantation slavery and the Highlands, young people were able       to get a sense of how many people in Britain's peripheries were central       actors in a system of wide-ranging economic change.
The exhibition       demonstrated how local archival resources can be used to show Highland       pupils how the empire shaped the socio-economic development of their       region in a globalising world.
The exhibition subsequently won Kehoe the Edinburgh Beltane Beacon Award       for Public Engagement Challenge Award (for best project) in March 2012 and       the &#163;2,000 prize money was spent on creating the 86-page school resource       pack, The Atlantic Slave Trade, 1770-1807 (2012-13).
Kehoe       collected and digitised a range of primary materials relevant to the links       between Highlanders and slavery from a range of archives across Scotland       as well as from the National Archives in London.
The selected sources were       supported by written commentaries by Kehoe who worked with the Education       and Outreach Coordinator of HAC, teachers from Inverness Royal Academy,       and four undergraduate students from GCU's Nineteenth-Century         Scotland module.
The resource pack is       currently in use by secondary school teachers in the delivery of the       Atlantic Slave Trade topic in the National 4/5 Curriculum for Excellence       (History) in 29 Highland Schools (in both electronic and paper format).
The pack contains commentaries and lengthy extracts from primary sources       derived from figures such as George Inglis of Inverness, who had extensive       plantation and slave interests in Demerara, James Andrew Anderson, the       Greenock banker, and the anti-slave trade surgeon, Richard Carr McClement.
Kehoe subsequently delivered a workshop (13 Jun 2013) at Inverness Royal       Academy on the subject 'Democracy and Citizenship' in which she summarised       her research on British peripheries and used the 'Looking Back to Move       Forward: Slavery and the Highlands' project as a case study.
She also gave       an interview as part of Radio Scotland's A Scot's History of         Britishness (Jul 2013) in which she discussed the connections       between the Irish and Scots Catholics and Britishness and the relationship       between slavery and Highland development (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p01cvtqt).
The research and impacts were designed to link the Highland region to       debates about the role of peripheries in globalisation.
Its four main       objectives were: (1) to bring current historical research into the       mainstream with a public exhibition; (2) to showcase how school pupils can       use local resources to create links between their communities and global       economies; (3) to demonstrate how universities can mentor community and       regional history projects relevant to discussions about sustainability;       and (4) to produce a history resource for schools that would have an       enduring impact in this emergent sub-field of academic research.
The       pupils engaging with the primary sources provided in the pack will       continue indefinitely to gain a fuller understanding of the concept of       globalisation and how it has influenced the long-term development of their       region.
Given the fact that youth unemployment is discouragingly high and       confidence levels low, Kehoe's rationale is that it is essential for       academics to reach out to local communities in this way and to use       research as a way of working with youth to inspire new thinking about       their place in a rapidly-changing global economy.
In her recent article,       'Looking Back to Move Forward: Slavery and the Highlands: A public       engagement case study', Scottish Local         History, 87 (2013), Kehoe reflected on the project, stressing the       fundamental importance of public engagement.
Dates when impact         occurred       Dec 2011 to June 2013
