     Summary, including nature and extent       Tindley's research and engagement activities revealed that a private       market model of healthcare       had largely failed the Highlands and Islands region in the late-nineteenth       and early twentieth       centuries and that many of the historic problems were still relevant.
The       Dewar Centenary Group       successfully used the momentum of the centenary years of 2012 and 2013 to       lobby the Scottish       government and NHS Highland to re-design healthcare and training       processes.
How the research led to the impact       The historical work on the Dewar Centenary Group was the subject of a       debate in the Scottish       Parliament (10.5.12 - source 6 below).
The Group was thanked by speakers       and congratulated by       Nicola Sturgeon (Cabinet Secretary).
The "inspirational principles" of the       Dewar Report were       highlighted, as was "the right of every individual in society to local,       accessible, healthcare; the       responsibility of the state to provide healthcare to every individual,       regardless of ability to pay; and       the importance of delivering good quality, well-organised, and       satisfactory health services."
Ms       Sturgeon spoke directly to the Group seated in the public gallery       throughout the debate.
The MSP       for Skye, Lochaber and Badenoch later chaired a meeting (7.9.12) where he       stated that the Dewar       Group's project had led to a "willingness to think differently."
The Chair       of NHS Highland Board       attended and stated "We have many vacancies in remote and rural areas and       we know the way we       structure practices needs to change in order to make these jobs more       attractive and to meet the       demands of modern care."
It was agreed "to put a proposal to the Cabinet       Secretary, Alex Neil,       that there should be a specific piece of work focusing on remote and rural       health and care       services, to build on the legacy of Dewar."
(sources 5 and 7 below).
This       led to the establishment       of new Rural Training Fellowships in General Practice (source 8).
An NHS       Education for Scotland       (NES) Board Paper (source 9) noted: "The `Dewar group' ... gained       significant media and political       interest recently in proposing not only that there is important learning       in the way the Dewar       Committee carried out its work in the early 20th century, but also that       the resulting       recommendations remain relevant" (p. 4)     Details of beneficiaries     1.
Medical professionals and general practitioners in remote and rural         Scotland.
Medical staff and general practitioners in remote and rural areas       benefited through an improved       programme of continuing professional development.
The research raised       awareness of these       issues amongst NHS Highland, the Rural Practitioners Association of       Scotland, the RCGP       (Scotland) and NES and promoted a dialogue within and between the       professions and government       to attempt to resolve problems of remote and rural healthcare.
A programme       of Rural Training       Fellowships in General Practice was made available.
An agreement with the       Scottish       Government's Director for Health and Health Improvement led to the       implementation of the       Group's benchmark model of `Four Dewar Tests' to support rural practice.
These consisted of (1)       The Mind Map (2) Benchmark Testing (3) Environmental Assessment and (4)       the `Dr Who' Test.
The tests currently form the basis of good practice in remote and rural       areas under NHS Highland       (source 2).
2.
Stakeholders and consumers of healthcare in the Highlands and         Islands.
The Group was able to operate as an independent broker between       communities, politicians and       health administrators and disseminated the Dewar model widely amongst       Highland communities.
A       workshop (`An Afternoon with Dewar') was held in the Highland Archive       Centre (23.5.12) to launch       the Dewar Report Centenary Exhibition (source 3) and moved subsequently to       Lochaber Archive       Centre (Jun 2012) and Inverness Museum and Art Gallery (Jul 2012), having       been earlier       previewed in a reception in the Scottish Parliament (10.5.12) and reported       on BBC Radio Scotland       (9.6.12).
3.
Politicians and other policy makers in Scotland.
The Group brought to legislators hitherto unknown information about the       long-term development of       the NHS in Scotland (source 6), providing a model for policy action.
A       dedicated policy workshop       was hosted by the Group in Fort William (Apr 2013) to which senior NHS       executives, general       practitioners, paramedics and midwives discussed the future of health       policy in the light of the       Group's key outcomes.
A further policy workshop was also held in Inverness       in Apr 2013 which       debated the core outcomes of the group.
A summary of what was learned can       be found at       http://www.ruralgp.com/wp/2013/05/dewar-2013-what-have-we-learned/.
Details of nature of impact       Cuts to services and difficulties with the recruitment and retention of       medical staff are of the utmost       concern to remote and rural communities.
The work of Tindley and the Dewar       Centenary Group       directly informed Highland health policy and led to major changes in       policy and practice which       benefited both healthcare professionals and stakeholders.
Evidence of       impact exists in the records       of exhibitions and conferences held, in the Scottish parliamentary record,       media reports, and       various reports on the RuralGP.com website.
Dates when impact occurred       May 2012 to July 2013
