  The detailed evidence provided of the widespread use of stigmatising, aggressive or dismissive representations of poverty in the media led to significant changes in the professional practice of journalists, television drama producers, politicians and third-sector workers, resulting in a less damaging representational environment for those experiencing poverty.
A spokesman for the Poverty Al iance said of this research in 2013: "There is little doubt that this piece of work for JRF influenced our thinking around influencing public attitudes to poverty &hellip; We continue to use the research in discussion about the media and poverty, so it has a continuing influence on our work" (see Section 5, Source 5).
Between May 2008 and July 2009 there were a total of fifteen public engagement events related to the project.
In addition to the official launch of the end-of-project report in London on 10 September 2008 - an event attended by a wide range of journalists, documentary makers, third-sector workers and people experiencing poverty - these included presentations to the All Parliamentary Group on Poverty, Westminster (June 2008); the BBC College of Journalism (September 2008); the Trades Union Congress National Conference (October 2008) and the Association of Journalism Educators (June 2009).
In October 2009, as part of preparations for the launch of the EU Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (2010), PIPI co-ordinator Teresa Hanley presented the key findings of the GCU report at a workshop facilitated by JRF during the European Commission's Poverty and Media Seminar in Brussels (Source 2), leading to an EU-funded project, with JRF on the advisory group, aimed at improving media coverage of people experiencing poverty and including development of a guide for EU journalists, thereby giving the project additional EU-wide reach.
Following a presentation of the results of the project, the Society of Editors commissioned the 88- page Reporting Poverty in the UK: a Practical Guide for Journalists (2008, revised 2009, see Source 3 for download figures) offering advice and guidance on how to report poverty without reproducing negative stereotypes uncritically.
This booklet was distributed to over 400 newspaper editors in the UK as well as to all journalism courses in UK universities, and also fed into the accompanying Reporting Poverty Resource Pack (download figures under Source 4) produced by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation for journalism tutors, trainers and students.
Both of these documents specifically acknowledge their debt to, and the inspiration they have drawn from the findings of the GCU project.
These dissemination activities led to focused efforts to change both professional journalism practices regarding reporting poverty and the representation of poverty in television drama.
The news editor of a leading Scottish broadsheet (Source 7) reported that while her paper had always taken coverage of poverty-related issues seriously, the research had helped them to become more aware of the potentially negative effects of certain words or the use of certain images.
A sub-editor at a leading tabloid (Source 8) commented that "As a journalist who has had to report and edit on a series of differing poverty stories, I am familiar with this relevant guide.
The issues surrounding poverty are complex and variable and this guide was useful at helping to clarify and simplify subject matters.
It was also used to determine appropriate words and phrases to use correctly and without prejudice".
A Senior Development Officer of BBC Drama (Source 8) indicated that the report had made for interesting reading and was certainly an issue she would bear in mind when developing storylines for upcoming dramas.
In addition the report provided material for a 2013 Royal Television Society lecture on Social Class and Television.
In terms of policy-related impact, the Scottish Government commissioned McKendrick to write Briefing Paper 26, Writing &amp; Talking about Poverty, in January 2011 (Source 9).
This stresses the need for "careful consideration to be given to how we describe poverty and argues that language is an important tool that should be mobilised in anti-poverty activity".
The Poverty Al iance "Stick&nbsp;Your Labels" campaign, based on the findings of the GCU report and aimed at eradicating the use of stigmatising language in relation to those experiencing poverty (Source 5), was subsequently publicly endorsed by the leaders of all the main Scottish political parties.
Further evidence can be found in the impact assessment which JRF commissioned for the PIPI project as a whole (Source 1).
A government policy maker on poverty and social exclusion in Northern Ireland interviewed as part of this assessment pointed out how the project's focus on the ways in which damaging stereotypes can be reproduced unthinkingly had "alerted her to the danger of using the language of the 'underclass'" (page 21).
Although the Reporting Poverty Guide was not written with third-sector workers in mind, members of this group interviewed as part of the PIPI impact assessment found the GCU subproject extremely useful in many ways.
For example "A grassroots discussant in Liverpool said the 'Reporting Poverty' guide was "one of the best marketing tools ever to get it out to people how bad journalism can entrench negative attitudes to people stuck in poverty, and the subsequent effect it has on society" (page 20).
