 GP Communication in Medical Consultations The impacts made following the publication of the research findings contained within the Health article include:  influencing the communication training of GPs with respect to shared decision-making in consultations; contributing to a wider debate about the ways in which medics converse with patients and listen to their concerns  One of the main findings of this research is that GPs draw upon a range of discursive devices to effectively close off shared decision-making with patients.
This work does not suggest that GPs do not wish to involve their patients in treatment decisions but rather that in the course of a time-limited consultation they adopt a conversational style that focuses on diagnosis and also upon controlling patient compliance.
However, like other public services, government policy has involved medical work in treating patients as stakeholders who are required to be involved in the services they access.
This necessitates that patients are not treated as passive recipients of a service but rather are active participants in decisions about their health.
Whilst there is a range of policy initiatives to bring this about, our work indicated that this is largely a veneer that covers actual practices.
As a consequence of this work, GP training and training in primary care now includes an element that examines how doctors converse with patients with the aim of making this more open and less controlling &#8212; see further work by Skelton1.
Higher Education Policy and Pedagogy The impacts relating to the work on the analysis and critique of pedagogic discourse in higher education include  Policy-orientated research examining the changing nature of higher education in Scotland through the application of sociological concepts and literature.
Influencing colleagues in higher education through consultancy work based on national workshops and conferences.
Moir's consultancy work for QAA (Scotland) through the Enhancement Themes projects,) has led debates (e.g.
through policy documents, Enhancement Themes Steering Committee meetings, conferences and workshops) at both national and international level in terms of the sociological impacts of the changing higher education landscape.
These and other areas of influence have included the widening of participation and issues of (in)equality, the focus on the personal, the engineering of graduate identities, the cultural changes associated with the blurring of formal and informal learning in the knowledge society, the impacts on staff and the management of change and, in relation to specific chapter cited, the linkages between digital literacy and academic literacy.
The reports are lodged with the national Enhancement Themes website, the authoritative source of national policy thinking and developments in Scottish higher education.
Scotland's approach to the management of change in higher education through and enhancement-led approach has been much admired, both nationally and internationally.
As such this website is not only consulted by senior HEI managers as well as teaching staff, but also has a wider reach in terms of informing colleagues in other parts of the world of the developments in Scottish higher education.
For example, Scottish higher education has recently benefited from the exchange of ideas with Australian academics and senior HEI managers on policy and pedagogical developments in higher education &#8212; see for example, recent input to the Enhancement Themes by Professor Kerri-Lee Krause from Griffith University as well as other researchers and commentators at the 2013 International Enhancement Themes conference in Glasgow, June 2013: http://www.enhancementthemes.ac.uk/docs/publications/post-conference-publication.pdf
