     Commissioned by the Arts Council England under the scheme Artists Taking       The Lead (4.1) to mark and celebrate the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad, The         Boat Project, delivered by Whelan, Winters and company (Lone Twin)       began in January 2011.
A large-scale participatory public artwork, its       success relied on creating impact in the public domain.
A considerable       investment by Arts Council England, &#163;500,000, underlined the perceived       agency of the project's ambition, to engage many thousands of people in       the communal building of a world-class racing yacht, a fitting invitation,       perhaps, for an island people: hand over a piece of your life, a wooden       piece of life, and together we'll build a boat.
Across January 2011 to September 2012, 440,698 people engaged with the       project during the build process and the boat's maiden voyage as part of       the London 2012 Festival and Cultural Olympiad (4.2).
The experience of       joining The Boat Project, by donating a wooden item, participating       in the build process or crewing the boat during its maiden voyage, was       beneficial to public participants in various ways: the project facilitated       the acquisition of new skills - 80 volunteers were trained in a range of       boat building techniques, project administration and archival processes,       while eight were taught to sail to RYA Competent Crew level; volunteers       formed new and lasting relationships with fellow volunteers; and 2,217       donors contributed to, and their lives were documented by a public artwork       of national and international significance - as donor Mary Milton puts it       `there's a part of me in that boat, and a part of my husband, he would       have loved this, well, off he goes now, a new life.
I didn't know an art       project could do that' (4.3).
The impact the project had on participants became a global media story,       with BBC One broadcasting live from the boat's launch.
From ITV to CNN,       from Saga Magazine to Time Magazine (4.4), the media's clear fascination       with the project is a product and reflection of the value and impact it       had on a large participatory audience.
As Fiona Wilkie states `...it is as       a record of more than 1200 separate trajectories - the movements of the       donated objects and their owners, both small- and large-scale - that it is       most powerful.... a record of the range of life events, birth, death,       marriage, parenthood, graduation, career changes, falling in and out of       love... Its significance as part of a dialogue around arts and the       Olympics lies in its coupling of aesthetic achievement with social       encounter' (4.5)     The project impacted on various professions, creating 22 paid positions       across teams of professional boat builders, archivists, producers and       project administrators.
The boat was built in Thornham Marina, Emsworth       under the technical direction of Olympic Yachtsman Mark Covel.
Following completion of the project, Jesse Loynes, Covell's       second-in-command, launched Arbor Yachts LTD, a commercial yacht building       company (4.6).
Abor Yachts grew directly from expertise Loynes developed       working on The Boat Project and currently employs all three       professional boat builders trained by Covell.
Long in decline in Emsworth,       boat building is now enjoying a renaissance.
Due to the unique nature of the technologies and techniques developed to       create the boat the project had considerable impact in the marine sector,       featuring in all major UK yachting magazines (4.7).
The use of the West       Epoxy System in the build process developed a number of new opportunities       for West, a partner in the project, including an introduction to Rolls       Royce, also project partners, to discuss use of West Epoxy in the       treatment of vehicle interiors, a move which sees the project acting as an       informal broker between two leading private sector organisations.
The       project partnered with over one hundred private and public sector       organisations.
These include leading cultural organisations: The London       Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, London 2012       Festival, Arts Council England, Turner Contemporary, Jerwood Gallery and       the Brighton Festival; and various public-sector local authorities.
Working in collaboration partners commissioned over thirty public       artworks, many from leading UK artists and arts companies, in direct       response to the themes and concerns of the project (4.8).
Here the project       had significant impact on the programming decisions of major cultural       organisations' response to the 2012 Cultural Olympiad.
The project's       status as an innovative participatory art work has had significant impact       on its public sector partners, specifically on audience development: `The       Boat Project brought together and had a tangible impact on a variety of       hard to reach groups and communities that would typically not access arts       or cultural provision in Margate' - Kent County Council (4.9).
Impact on       audience development extends to France where the boat appeared during       Dunkirk's Regional Capital of Culture programme (May 2013) (4.10).
A       large-scale outreach programme engaged over three thousand young people       through partnerships with over one hundred schools, enabling an innovative       and participatory learning experience focused on the social possibilities       of contemporary public art (4.11).
