     Audience development       The palace building work offered a unique opportunity for Kensington       Palace to experiment with different ways for visitors to explore and       interact with the palace, its stories and treasures [1].
After the       extensive refurbishment, the palace would re-open in 2012 as `A palace for       everyone', so the opportunity to develop Kensington Palace's visitor       demographic prior to the re-opening was an important part of the project.
The core audience of Kensington Palace was previously made up of       `traditional' visitors who have a general interest in historic buildings.
The majority of this group were mostly international, `once in a lifetime'       visitors.
People whose interest in the palace due to its association with       Princess Diana made up another key audience segment, while families and       young, urban Londoners were underrepresented [3].
The Enchanted Palace had a considerable impact on the visitor       demographic.
It attracted a much wider audience than usual with a 20% rise       in London-based visitors and 17% rise in visitors aged 25-34 [2].
More       people were visiting Kensington Palace than ever before: in the first year       of The Enchanted Palace visitor numbers were up 22% on the       previous year at their peak [3].
The Enchanted Palace was an immersive experience, very different       from a standard museum visit.
This provoked some extreme reactions from       visitors.
As well as filling the palace's visitor book, many comments were       posted online on TripAdvisor and Mumsnet [6].
While many people loved The Enchanted Palace, a minority hated       it.
This strength of feeling (both positive and negative) was something       that Kensington Palace had never encountered before [3].
The exhibition was widely covered in the press [4], including national       newspapers, prestigious fashion-focused magazines such as Vogue, trendy       urban publications Time Out and Wallpaper as well as by influential       bloggers.
It was also well-received by the museum sector and featured on       the International Council of Museums website: Clothes Tell Stories [5] as       well as cited in several peer- reviewed journals [9].
The Enchanted         Palace won the Editor's Award for Innovation and Tourism at the 2010       Group Travel Awards [8].
As part of project, Kensington Palace tried out late-night opening for       the first time, with four Enchanted Evening attracting on average       400 visitors.
Nearly 700 people attended `Peter the Wild Boy's Ball', the       last in the series of evening events.
Following the success of these       events, Kensington Palace has run further evening events, including `Eerie       evening tours'.
Community       Community involvement was a key part of the project.
Drawing on WildWorks'       and specifically, Mercedes Kemp's previous work with communities in       unusual settings, the project brought a diverse group of people together,       both from within the palace and the local area.
Thirteen educational and       community partners were involved in creating artwork and exhibits for The         Enchanted Palace: Acton and West London College, Central St Martin's       College of Art, Chelsea Methodists, Fox Primary School, Harpley Pupil       Referral Unit, Into University, Locksley and St Dunstan's Sewing Group,       North Kensington Jigsaw Club Positive Age, Pimento Supplementary School,       the Prince's Drawing School, Queens Park Children's Sewing Centre,       Stitches in Time and Wimbledon College of Art.
Many of the people involved had never visited Kensington Palace before,       or would have even thought of visiting, yet made a strong emotional       connection with the stories connected to the palace:     "Visiting Kensington Palace taught me that even princesses had sad         lives too.
I didn't realise they had to be married off, or leave their         country, family and precious possessions behind, just like us.
I felt         important and proud seeing my embroidery displayed in the palace."
Fathima Begum from Dora Hall Sewing Group.
[2]     The Enchanted Palace has also had lasting impact on HRP, in       particular how it trains its staff and manages projects [7].
