     Autonomatic research has featured in international public exhibitions and       lectures, won significant national awards and prizes and influenced policy       in the craft sector over the last 10 years.
In 2013 Autonomatic was       presented the Craft Skills Spotlight Award, recognising important work       done in digital skills across the sector.
Business Development &#8212; researchers have engaged in knowledge       transfer and exchange activities with the professional sector through       workshops, collaborative projects, exhibitions, demonstrations and public       lectures.
Autonomatic aims to demystify digital tools, promoting       technological experimentation and risk-taking as the basis of creative       business development.
In 2006, Autonomatic worked with Hidden Art       Cornwall, a membership organisation supporting Designer-Makers in       Cornwall, to deliver `Repeat and Variation', a project providing members       with an opportunity to develop new products through their exploration of       digital technologies.
Hidden Art Cornwall's membership was invited to a       networking event on designer-makers' creative applications of digital       technologies and a digital technology demo day.
50 members attended the       networking event and 25 the demo.
10 Members submitted ideas for the       creative use of technologies in their own practices and 5 proposals were       selected for development with the Autonomatic team.
Working closely with       researchers, makers developed digital production processes and innovative       products, subsequently exhibited at the Hidden Art Cornwall Design Fair at       Godolphin House, Cornwall, 2006.
(www.autonomatic.org.uk/rv_intro.php).
This project influenced business development for two participants in       particular:     Lucy Turner developed a new business laser cutting inlays for surface       decoration on furniture.
Her work now retails in John Lewis.
In June 2013,       7 years after `Repeat and Variation,' Turner comments on Autonomatic's       impact on her business: `I knew what I wanted to do but my lack of       experience with digital design tools was holding me back.
I can't thank       Katie and Justin enough for sharing their expertise with me and helping me       see an idea through from start to finish, giving me a launch pad for the       beginning of a now successful business."
Jethro Macey used digital tools for prototyping and mould-making for his       2007 Elle Decoration Award-winning tiles.
Autonomatic's technological       instruction and processes enabled him to easily scale up and outsource       production to a manufacturer when demand increased.
In June 2013, Macey:       `Working with Autonomatic through the Repeat and Variation project       radically changed the way I viewed the use of digital technologies ...
They bridged the communication and understanding gap that is often found       when designers work with digital manufacturers that are often engineering       based and aren't as open to experimentation.
Working with people that       understood the aesthetic, conceptual and technical processes in an       integral way enabled me to experiment and come up with a product that kick       started my career.
From my initial concept I realised a successful project       that went on to be awarded an Elle Decoration British Design Award and       shaped the future of my business.'
Crafts Sector Policy &#8212; Bunnell and Marshall's Autochina and       Automake projects are included in Craft's Council reports and policy       documents as examples of innovative business models for craft       practitioners (a list of policy documents is provided in the following       section).
This work forms the basis of a current research project at       Falmouth.
The `Supercrafted' project, part-funded by BT's Superfast       Cornwall Labs and ERDF, is developing digital technology applications that       facilitate online digital design, manufacture or marketing       interaction.
'Supercrafted' experiments and directly engages with Internet       support of craft communities       (http://www.falmouth.ac.uk/content/supercrafted).
Dr Ranulf Scarbrough, Director &#8212; Cornwall Superfast Broadband Programme at       BT: `Autonomatic's work with the Craft sector in remote locations such as       Cornwall is enabling new engagement with digital network capabilities for       micro business, exploring the potential of technology to transform their       market reach.
Their work is influencing the development of new business       models for small scale high quality networked manufacturing in the digital       economy'.
Public Art Impact &#8212; `1497 Plates': A collaborative project with       artist, Chris Tipping, to produce a 9m x 6m wall of digitally-designed and       manufactured bone china dinner plates commemorating Combe Down Stone Mine,       commissioned by Bath and North East Somerset Council and exhibited at the       Octagon, Bath, 2010.
The plates were digitally designed by Bunnell and       Tipping and manufactured by Digital Ceramic Systems in Stoke-on-Trent.
Combing digital data from engineers, geologists and Ordinance Survey with       archaeological references and cultural associations, the plates record the       mine's impact.
After the exhibition, individual plates recording houses       were gifted to the house owners and the rest were made into sets auctioned       to the villagers.
