     Cultural barriers exist between public attention and environmental       science.
RANE recognises people rarely respond to dire messages about       climate change and dwindling natural resources with due vigour; using a       creative approach, however, the visual arts provide for public engagement       with troubling information and alternative strategies or behaviours.
Art       research projects produced by members of RANE and exhibited at major       venues throughout the UK, Europe, the US, Australia and China all respond       to these cultural and environmental issues by stimulating critical       thinking and debate about our relationship with the natural world.
In 2006 and 2008 the group hosted two conferences, Artful Ecologies 1         &amp; 2, attracting 180 international artists, writers and       environmentalists, and subsequently published the conference papers.
RANE       organises and promotes the series `Comprehending Nature', public       lectures by world-renowned artists which examine contemporary       interpretations of nature from artistic perspectives, and have attracted       over 2,000 attendees.
A RANE yearbook documents activities and outputs of       individual staff members and students.
RANE is linked to key international players through dedicated digital       networks and participates in the eco-art networks ecoartnetwork.org       and greenmuseum.org &#8212; two of the most significant international       networks of eco-artists from around the world.
RANE's own email list       extends over 600 subscribers.
The group has developed strong links with external organisations such as       Cape Farewell; the Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental       Management's (CIWEM) Arts &amp; Environment Network; and the Centre for       Contemporary Art and the Natural World (CCANW).
RANE now works with the       National Association for Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB).
In       2013 the Cornwall AONB produced their annual, and widely circulated,       calendar using artworks made by RANE members as a alternative to normative       depictions of protected landscapes.
Cape Farewell, the leading eco-cultural organisation, currently partner       to the Environmental Change Institute at University of Oxford and the       Cambridge University Programme for Sustainable Leadership, invited Montag       to join the expedition to the Peruvian Andes and Amazon researching the       impact of climate change.
The resulting works are included in the       international touring exhibition Unfold, which toured with a       global audience of over 26,500.
Montag and members of the RANE group have       also contributed to Cape Farewell's education and outreach programmes, Shortcourse       and Sea Change.
Launched in collaboration with the Eden Project,       the programmes' exhibition drew over 20,000 visitors (mainly families with       children).
CIWEM is the leading professional body for the people who plan, protect       and care for the environment and its resources, providing educational       opportunities and independent information to the public and advice to       governments.
As a member of the steering group since its inception, Daro       Montag has helped shape this network, which aims to influence national       policy and promote cross- sectoral coherence.
In 2007, CIWEM formally       recognised the importance of the arts for engaging these audiences by       initiating a major new strategic programme, the Arts and Environment       Network.
CCANW is a community interest company providing exhibitions, artist-led       projects and educational activities to address urgent social,       environmental and scientific issues; CCANW is listed as a key organisation       in The World Nature Art Catalogue.
In 2013 Daro Montag was appointed       co-director of CCANW which, in collaboration with RANE, initiated a       four-year project entitled `Soil Culture'.
This project, to raise       awareness about the urgent need to protect soils globally, has received       &#163;30,000 from the AHRC to establish the research network and &#163;49,000 from       Arts Council England for exhibitions, residencies and outreach.
As part of       this project RANE has so far participated in the Living Soil Forum, Jarna,       Sweden, and the European Network for Soil Awareness, James Hutton       Institute, Aberdeen and in October 2013 contributed to the Action Forum at       the Global Soil Week in Berlin.
This event, led by the FAO of the UN and       the Global Soil Partnership, recognises the value of the arts for raising       awareness around the importance of soil for environmental sustainability.
