 Waiton's body of work has had a direct impact on professionals working in social work, youth work and community education, including charitable organisations like Play Scotland and the Scottish Parents Teachers Council (SPTC).
It has influenced training, helped develop professional resources, informed public and practitioner debates, and contributed to campaigns.1 The high number of invited engagements and talks delivered by Waiton, often for voluntary organizations, over a long period of time, demonstrate that he has played a significant role informing public and practitioner debates and practices.
In recognition of his role as a public sociologist Waiton was invited to become a member of the Royal Society of the Arts, enhancing his reputation as a leading public authority on issues within his field of expertise.
This reputation also resulted in Waiton being invited to write a monthly column for the Times Education Supplement in Scotland and subsequently being invited to write a column for the Scotsman.
Waiton is also a regular contributor to national television and radio debate programmes.
Examples of practitioner impact include Play Scotland, who reported2 that, `Dr Waiton's .... academic arguments regarding the over regulation of young people's lives have been extremely useful for promoting the idea of free play and raising difficult issues and ideas regarding policies directed at both adults and children'.
The Scottish Parents Teachers Council (SPTC) stated3, the `SPTC has found Dr Waiton's work useful for both raising debate amongst the membership and also helping to add weight to concerns we have about aspects of government policy regarding children and parents, issues around which we continue to lobby schools, local authorities and policy makers'.
As the education charity Word Write further commented, `Dr Waiton's writings have been of great benefit to our education charity's work and stakeholders.
His correspondence, articles, and now book, looking at the question of sectarianism, racism and the policing of football fans helped us to develop an education and online programme examining the issue of racism and offensiveness in society today'.4 A Leading academic and youth work trainer5 also commented that, `Dr Waiton's work has been widely used.
I have often drawn on [his] insights on anti-social behaviour policy in constructing training programmes for youth work and for the police and in KE sessions with police, health service and CLD'.
As the head of HM Inspector of Education confirmed: `In 2010 Dr Stuart Waiton gave an input on the subject "Scared of the Kids" to the Community Learning and Development (CLD) Professional Group within Education Scotland (formerly HM Inspectorate of Education).
The CLD professional group is made up of HM Inspectors who have a particular focus on work with young people, inclusion and community capacity building.
Dr Waiton's input was well received and stimulated lively discussion amongst the group'.6 Waiton's expertise on issues associated with antisocial behaviour and curfews has also resulted in his work being referenced within government policy research documents7 discussing public space, youth violence and also public perceptions of young people.
This also led to Waiton being invited in 2013 to provide written and oral evidence to the Education and Culture Committee inquiry into taking children into care.
Perhaps most significantly, Waiton's research on the criminalisation of everyday life led to him being invited to a meeting at the Scottish Parliament to discuss the proposed Offensive Behaviour at Football Bill.
Following a written submission on this topic, Waiton was invited to contribute to the Justice Committee review of the Bill.8 The Clerk to the Justice Committee, within the limits of Parliamentary probity, noted that, Waiton made a `positive contribution to the scrutiny of the Offensive Behaviour etc Bill', and that his `media appearances and writings....played a part in generating awareness of the Bill'.9 Although the Act passed, Waiton influenced the nature of the debate around sectarianism and policing.
The organiser of the main anti-sectarian body in Scotland, Nil By Mouth, noted that: `It struck me that [Waiton] was seeking to `widen' out the sectarianism debate from the narrow confines of football and his contribution touched upon serious moral and ethical issues surrounding free speech and what does, or does not, constitute hate crime.
Given the severity of the sentences under the new legislation it is extremely important that these issues were raised and reflected upon
