     The dissemination of research findings to a wide public beyond higher       education was an integral part of these projects from their initial       planning stages through to their delivery.
At the National Portrait Gallery, the primary audience of gallery       visitors was able to access the findings of Sheppard Skaerved's research       not only through the exhibition itself, but also through a large programme       of interactive events co-ordinated by him and delivered by him in       collaboration with composers, performers and advanced students from the       Royal Academy of Music.
These included public lecture-recitals, open       workshops, guided tours, and question-and-answer sessions with the       visitors.
The events enabled audiences to understand the research that       informed the curation of the exhibition, as well as the finished product       itself, and afforded them insights into the dynamics of creative       collaboration that also underpinned the connections between the       exhibition's portraits.
A wider audience was addressed through the       exhibition-related materials that Sheppard Skaerved placed on his website       and through the filming and publication of the DVD Only Connect       (2013).
In the Library of Congress the most immediate beneficiaries of the       project's impact were the members of the audience who attended Sheppard       Skaerved's lecture-recital in the Coolidge Auditorium.
A wider audience       has been reached through the project-related materials posted on Sheppard       Skaerved's website &#8212; including an online journal covering the period of       the research and the preparation for the live event &#8212; and through the       hour-long film made by the Library of Congress, featuring spoken delivery       and performances by Sheppard Skaerved, available on YouTube.
For both projects, other beneficiaries of the impact include the museum       professionals who collaborated with Sheppard Skaerved in his innovative       approach to curation and high-level performance in the exhibition and       events.
This has led to further invitations to Sheppard Skaerved from       other prestigious museums, including the British Museum and the Musical       Instrument Museum in Brussels, to develop similar projects with items from       their collections.
The reach of the impact of Sheppard Skaerved's research is evidenced by       visitor numbers to the Only Connect exhibition at the National       Portrait Gallery (NPG figures were 1.9 million in 2011); by the audience       numbers for the events associated with the exhibition (capacity audiences       of over 200 for each of five events); by the audience figures for the       lecture-recital given at the Library of Congress as part of the Paganini       Project (470 attendees); by the number of hits received by the Library of       Congress film on YouTube (over 2000 hits); by the readership of Strings       magazine (c. 123000; source: http://www.allthingsstrings.com/Advertising-Information);       and by the number of hits on Sheppard Skaerved's own website containing       related materials.
The DVD Only Connect was published at the very       end of the assessment period, and sales figures are not yet available.
The significance of Sheppard Skaerved's impact is witnessed by the public       and professional recognition of his work, notably through the invitations       from some of the world's most prestigious museums and       galleries to collaborate on major projects involving aspects       of their collections.
