     Shipton's research on twentieth-century jazz and popular music history       has been disseminated through books, radio and television broadcasts,       newspapers, and magazines.
This has served to bring his subjects (and       related areas of jazz and popular music) to a wide public and generated       new professional and commercial interest in their work, in the UK and       internationally.
McHugh's songs have been recorded by a new generation of       artists; Calloway and his work have featured on radio and television;       there has been a major CD reissue programme of Nilsson's work.
Throughout his career, Shipton has sought to communicate his research to       a wide public beyond academia.
His weekly broadcasts on BBC Radio 3 have       sought to reach a general listenership, and so, for example, he has not       only presented programmes on Cab Calloway, but on members of Calloway's       orchestra including Dizzy Gillespie and Jonah Jones.
Shipton's appearances       at Cheltenham Jazz Festival and King's College London in April 2010 to       discuss McHugh and Calloway were open to the general public, as was the       discussion of McHugh at the London Jazz Festival in November 2010.
Shipton       has also chaired a round table discussion on Duke Ellington (and his       connections with Calloway and McHugh) at the Barbican, London, in November       2010.
McHugh's music is less well-known than that of his contemporaries George       Gershwin, Jerome Kern and Irving Berlin.
However, as a direct consequence       of Shipton's book, Michael Feinstein presented a concert of McHugh's work       at the Zankel Hall (below New York's Carnegie Hall) in November 2009, and       interviewed Shipton on stage about the composer and his music.
Feinstein       has subsequently presented similar programmes in New York and Los Angeles.
In November 2009, the singer Wesla Whitfield presented a concert of       McHugh's songs at the Barnes and Noble bookstore at Lincoln Center, New       York, at which Shipton talked about the composer and his work.
This was       televised for local New York PBS stations, reaching a sizeable media       audience.
Since Shipton's book was published, leading singers including       Michael Bubl&#233; and Jane Monheit have recorded McHugh's songs.
Shipton's research on Cab Calloway was used by the New York filmmaker       Gail Levin in making a television biography of the singer for the European       Arte Network (the leading Arts network in France and Germany) and for       public broadcasting Channel 13 in the USA.
The book also generated renewed       interest in the singer and his work, as interpreted by his grandson       Christopher Calloway Brooks, and the present-day version of the Cab       Calloway Orchestra.
In addition to a Jazz Library programme on BBC       Radio 3 in April 2011, Shipton broadcast extensively about Calloway in the       USA, including appearances on the WNYC book programme Soundcheck,       WNIC's Mark Hayes music programme, and the Daily Swarm blog.
Jazz         Library at the time had a weekly audience of 150,000 (source:       RAJAR).
WNYC has approximately one million listeners a week in the New       York area (source: WNYC website) and WNIC has a reach of over 100,000.
The reach of the impact of Shipton's research is also evidenced by sales       figures.
Both the McHugh and Calloway biographies have sold approximately       2500 copies in hardback, with a further 1500 copies sold of the Calloway       paperback.
Nilsson had sold approximately 6000 copies in its first four       months from publication in July 2013, plus half that number again as       Kindle e-book sales.
It was serialised by The Mail on Sunday (with       a readership of 1.7 million), and broadcast as Radio 4's Book of the         Week in August 2013 (estimated audience, BBC figures: 1.2 million).
Japanese translation rights have also been sold.
The significance of Shipton's contribution to the public understanding of       jazz and pop music is such that in addition to being the weekly presenter       of Radio 3's Jazz Record Requests, he is a frequent contributor to       Radio 4 programmes such as Front Row and Last Word.
He is       also a regular speaker at public events on jazz matters, including Jazz       and the Media Conference (Birmingham City University,) 2010; Fleet U3A,       2011; Abingdon European Society 2011; Jazz and Multiple Sclerosis       (speaker) House of Commons, 2011; 1azz in Europe conference, Paris, Cit&#233;       de la Musique, September 2011; Highgate School jazz lecture, 2012, Sage       Gateshead, Poetry and Jazz round table (chair), 2013; Cheltenham Literary       Festival 2013; Charles Mingus Experience Day, CBSO Centre Birmingham,       2013.
Other Indicators: I Feel A Song Coming On was shortlisted for the       ARSC awards for best research in popular music, 2009; Hi-De-Ho was       shortlisted for the ARSC awards for best research in jazz, 2010.
