     An impact of this research has been to enable inter-tribal networks       across Kenya to document their suppressed histories, identify their       community needs, and become empowered agents in a process of peace and       reconciliation.
Skills 4 Rural Kenya is a charity focusing on       removing barriers to ICT provision due to inadequate infrastructures and       lack of skilled workforce by providing equipment donation, capacity       building, skills training and research and development (source 5.1).
It       has been modelled on the community informatics research of DAY [3.2, 3.3]       and his co-researchers.
The work of this charity has been welcomed by the       UN and Kenyan government, which have asked the organisation to expand on       previous initiatives to help overcome the digital divide between urban and       rural Kenya.
ICT initiatives in Mtandao Viganjani are community-owned       rural networks acting as diverse communal information resource       mobilisation centres and community advocacy and awareness spaces,       providing a converging point of community synergy.
Empowerment of       marginalised and victim communities in Kenya has been facilitated through       the provision of audiovisual filming technology and enhanced access to ICT       in the community.
The charity has distributed over 500 computers to 17       villages across Kenya; this in addition to the two prototype initiatives       in Kibugat and Antubochiu (target total=195 centres, provision of 20,000       computers, reaching potentially two million people across the age-range).
Videos, created by young Kenyans, that reflected on post-election       violence, demonstrated how rural tribes could employ appropriate       technology to raise issues within their local communities.
This created a       platform from which local voices could be heard (5.4).
Focus Youth       International said of UoB's work in providing training that facilitated       the use of ICT in peace-promotion in the run-up to the 2013 national       elections: `We have used the materials made by Day and his teams       in our work on reconciliation and peace-building in relation to       inter-tribal relations.
It has been most valuable in helping us give a       voice to victims and those previously disenfranchised from public debate'       (5.8, 5.3).
A further impact of the research has been to help citizens to understand       their democratic place in a wider society and polity in order to affect       their political participation.
Rongo University College, Kenya, has       adopted the UoB community informatics research model, following UoBs       `inspiring example' in training communities and marginal groups in       communications technologies (5.6).
Building on this research, Rongo has       taken the decision to establish a modern multi-media centre based on       outreach to needy communities and groups, including youth and communities       in remote rural areas.
The International Youth Council (Kenya Chapter)       observes, quoting the direct words of one of its peaceworkers: `ICT       training, particularly film-making, was essential to equip the youths in       their numbers, from ethnic diversity, and tell their story and take the       message out from here of the need for peace, using technology ... the       Kibugat and ICT initiative opened a remote village in Kenya, united by ICT       and Peace irrespective of their ethnic background, to the windows of the       world' (5.7).
The research has generated new practices of participatory, community-led       and neighbourhood planning, identifying community needs and using agile       technologies with partner agencies, for practical community development,       as in the introduction of community media centre models in Kenya, and the       adoption of neighbourhood planning models in rural Sussex.
The Chairperson       of the International Youth Council (Kenya) sees adoption of the UoB model       as `the start of an initiative that will go a long way in exchanging media       best practices between UoB and our youth while laying foundations for the       media training center and online radio.
This will be critical also in       promoting citizen journalism and exposing real time stories by the people,       for the people and used by the people'.
Action in Rural Sussex (AiRS), working with GANT, has adopted UoB       research in its developmental policies.
AiRs CEO writes `Nick Gant's work       and the partnership project concept and toolkit Community21 has challenged       some of our presumptions about policy needs for small rural communities,       and brought back the community itself into processes such as neighbourhood       planning'.
Following independent and positive evaluation of the Community21       prototype, AiRS, in its Business Plan, 2012-14, states its       development objective to `roll out the community-led planning tool,       Community21, in Sussex, the South East, and at least five other counties       through a partnership with other rural community councils' (5.2).
The CEO       confirms that `the principle of neighbourhood and community planning is       now vital to our policy implementation processes' (5.5).
Partnerships between academic researchers and non-academics in       participatory research have constituted a form of democratic research       design, a radicalisation of the more passive action research model.
These       partnerships, thriving as forms of knowledge exchange, have been developed       in localities, adopted by regional and national agencies, and applied in       international settings.
