 In 2008, Professor Biggar's work attracted a &#163;250k benefaction from the former deputy Chief of Staff in President Carter's White House to establish the McDonald Centre for Theology, Ethics, and Public Life.
Within two years, the benefactor was so impressed by the Centre's work that he decided to endow it in perpetuity with a further benefaction of &#163;2,085,000.
This arrangement was confirmed by formal agreements in March and April 2011.
Both as an individual and through the reputation and facilities of the Centre, Biggar has injected the results of his academic work into the bloodstream of public discourse and advised numerous UK and international experts and members of government and the civil service.
Widening public understanding and debate Biggar's work on the ethics of killing, both concerning euthanasia &amp; PAS and war, has reached a wide public audience through letters and articles published in the general media.
Furthermore, these pieces have often prompted further commentary and debate before an ever-widening audience.
For example, The Times published his letter, "Dangers of Dignitas and the Law" (18 July 2009), which was then republished alongside a letter by the celebrity lobbyist for the legalisation of PAS, Terry Pratchett, as `Exchange of the Week' in The Week (23 July 2009), and finally quoted by Bryan Appleyard in The Sunday Times (2 August 2009) [i].
The following year, Biggar published a 4,000 word essay, "The Road to Death on Demand", in the current affairs magazine Standpoint (March 2010), which was subsequently quoted by Dominic Lawson in the Sunday Times (28 February 2010) [ii], and republished in the American journal, The Human Life Review, XXXVI/2 (Spring 2010).
Standpoint has an approximate circulation of 10,000, The Week 170,000, The Times 600,000, and The Sunday Times 1.2m.
With regards to Biggar's work on the ethics of killing and war, in July 2009 he debated on BBC Radio 4 with Alan Dershowitz, the (in)famous American jurist and political commentator, on whether contemporary counterinsurgency requires changes to traditional just war doctrine.
In March 2010, the Financial Times (circulation 390,000) published his "Do not be so sure Invading Iraq was Immoral" [iii], which was republished in the Straits Times (Singapore, circulation 374,000) on 22 March 2010 and quoted on the American website Commentary [iv].
In April 2012 Biggar lectured under the title "Should Doctors Ever Kill?"
at the world-famous Mayo Clinic at Rochester, MN, USA [v].
In October of the same year, he debated about the legalisation of PAS with Lord Falconer, its leading British parliamentary advocate, at Kings College London, under the title "At the End of the Day" [vi].
As a member of the Committee on Ethical Issues in Medicine of the Royal College of Physicians, Biggar has used his work to help persuade the College not to adopt a position of neutrality on the legalisation of PAS in the UK.
Influencing public policy Professor Biggar has frequently been approached to provide information and advice to a range of policy makers, government officials, and practitioners.
In November 2009, under the auspices of the Wyndham Place Charlemagne Trust, Professor Biggar delivered a lecture, "To Intervene or Not to Intervene: Ethical and Religious Reflections on Military Intervention for Humanitarian Purposes", to a London audience of serving and retired civil servants [vii].
At the invitation of the Higher Command Staff Course at the UK Defence Academy, Shrivenham, he also spoke to forty senior British and foreign army, navy, and air force officers about just war on 15 February 2010 - and again on 21 February 2011.
In the wake of his piece "Do not be so sure Invading Iraq was Immoral", Biggar was commissioned to write a 4,000 word article ("Iraq: What are the Morals of the Story?")
for the in-house journal of the Royal Institute for International Affairs (Chatham House), International Affairs (January 2011) [viii].
Biggar was then invited to debate the justice of the Iraq war with Dr David Fisher, former senior civil servant in the Ministry of Defence and recent author of The Morality of War (OUP, 2011) at Chatham House.
Introduced by the renowned military historian Michael Howard, this debate took place on 22 March 2011 before an audience of two hundred, which included a number of Members of Parliament and high-ranking civil servants from the time of the lead-up to the war.
This exchange between Biggar and Fisher was subsequently published as "Was Iraq an Unjust War?"
in International Affairs (May 2011) [ix].
Biggar's work on war has been further directly communicated through discussion with various senior members of UK and international Government departments and intelligence services via a series of annual colloquia on ethical issues in international affairs, which is co-sponsored by the McDonald Centre for Theology, Ethics, and Public Life in Oxford, and by Chatham House in London.
To date this series has included meetings on: (1) National Interest and Foreign Policy (5 February 2010), which included senior members of the Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office and the Ministry of Defence.
(2) The Ethics of Intelligence Gathering (16 February 2011), which included senior members of the UK and US intelligence services.
(3) The Ethics of Humanitarian Intervention in the Wake of the Libyan Crisis (10 February 2012), which included senior members of the FCO and MoD, together with experts on the Middle East.
(4) The Ethics of Remote Weaponry (1 February 2013), which included American, German, and Dutch experts.
After attendance at these meetings, participants have made the following comments.
John McLaughlin, former Deputy Director and Acting Director of the Central Intelligence Agency of the USA: "conferences I attended...were enormously valuable in my work in Washington, which involves service on various government advisory boards and teaching graduate students at Johns Hopkins University, many of whom are heading for important positions in the American government...
The spirited debate among them...has already informed my teaching and influenced the advice I offer to our national security community in the United States" [1].
John Lloyd, Contributing Editor at the Financial Times, and columnist at Reuters.com and at La Repubblica: "The McDonald Centre at Oxford has, to my knowledge as a participant in several of its events, held high level seminars/conferences on the national interest...
I believe it has made, and should continue to make, a difference to the national conversation on all of the matters it has tackled" [2].
Edwina Moreton, OBE, formerly Diplomatic Editor and Deputy Foreign Editor, The Economist: "I have found the McDonald Centre series hugely and directly helpful in my work, which in reporting and editorial writing requires me to address a wide range of difficult yet topical issues...
The quality of my own thinking, analysis and writing on these and other subjects benefited directly as a result" [3].
The importance of this series of meetings has been attested to by Iain Mathewson, CMG, formerly of the UK's Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office: "This continues as a unique series of colloquia, which were not available to government until the McDonald Centre launched them.
Chatham House's continuing support is itself evidence of their value and impact.
After a career in foreign intelligence collection followed by five years as an associate fellow at Chatham House's International Security Programme I know only too well how important a gap existed before the McDonald Centre began to fill it in 2010" [4].
Professor Biggar's work has also proved of direct influence to Members of Parliament and the House of Lords.
On 31 January 2011, in the House of Commons' debate about Iran's potential nuclear weapons, the Rt.
Hon.
Dennis MacShane, MP for Rotherham, encouraged the secretary of state "to read the article in the current edition of International Affairs [January 2011] by Professor Nigel Biggar" and expounded on the arguments therein [x].
In a July 2013 discussion in the House of Lords in relation to the Syrian conflict, Baroness Falkner of Margravine stated her gratitude for the thoughtful discussions she had had with Professor Biggar [xi].
