     `Approaching Shakespeare' and `Great Writers Inspire' have had       significant impact on a range of beneficiaries outside Higher Education,       including school students and their teachers and life- long learners.
AS was and is the most successful of the Faculty's early experiments with       the podcast lecture format.
Downloaded 407,319 times by the end of       the audit period, it is a recommended resource in schools across the UK.
The series was trialled by Smith in October 2010 with technical assistance       from IT Services, and quickly taken up by the school and university       sectors, becoming a staple resource for teaching and learning about       Shakespeare.
Email feedback includes: `I came across [AS] last year on       iTunes when writing on Othello, and found your lecture a fantastic help...       as an introduction to ways of thinking about the play, and to how I might       try to put together an argument about it' (Ref.
1) from a 6th form       student; and `As head of More Able and Talented at a large state school, I       am constantly looking for resources to improve our teaching and your       podcasts are giving us just that opportunity.
Members of the English       department are now using Wittgenstein's Dabbit illustration in the way you       did and finding it to be a very effective approach and our more able       students are being encouraged to listen to the podcasts both to improve       their understanding of the plays and to encourage them to believe that       Oxford ... operates at A-level they will find accessible' (Ref.
2) from a       teacher.
Experiencing this success, and recognising a need for further resources       to bridge the divide between the research university and other learning       environments, Smith worked with Beasley and Williams on a JISC grant       proposal for funding to support more ambitious efforts at making Faculty       research freely available on-line.
Launched 18 April 2012, www.writersinspire.org       now makes 3,598 open resource content items available to the       public.
All are licensed for educational reuse worldwide, the majority       labelled with a Creative Commons licence.
The figure includes 3,021         eBooks (the majority, c. 3,000, from the Oxford Text Archive of       scholarly texts deposited with IT services in pre-1990s electronic       versions), 195 audio talks, including 119 video files, 89         short scholarly contextual essays written by academic researchers or       graduate students, plus 96 images.
37 academics from the       UOA have contributed content in the form of lectures and/or scholarly       essays.
Curated by subject specialists from within the Faculty, steered       and evaluated by the demands of the subject community with the help of       school partners, GWI was designed to combat the data deluge facing       potential users of online digital materials related to English literature.
eBooks and videos are framed and introduced with essays and contextual       material.
A number of resources have been adapted for presentation on       portable devices such as tablets and smartphones.
Collecting existing       materials together and enriching them with new resources has gained an       audience for materials unlikely otherwise to attract notice at secondary       school level.
This process has taken place in part through a WordPress       blog (http://writersinspire.wordpress.com/), launched       June 2009, which captures new resources and academics' scholarly posts.
Paid graduate student ambassadors contributed content, including blog       entries and short essays (e.g.
explanatory context for items in the Oxford       Text Archive).
All material goes into Apple's global publishing platform       Apple iTunes U, and (in parallel) into the main university media website  www.podcast.ox.ac.uk to enable       more direct retrieval through Google.
IT-Support have worked closely with       Google, who already ranked the University of Oxford highly, using titles,       keywords, and sheer volume of content to maximize GWI's ranking in their       search engine.
Type the word `lectures' and the name of a major British       author or text into Google (e.g.
`Shakespeare', `Dickens', `Beowulf'), and       Oxford English Faculty material will generally be the first search       finding.
(Ref.
i).
The popularity of GWI encouraged the Faculty to invest further resources       of time and money in the project.
GWI was given a design update in summer       2013, with the aid of &#163;5000 of Faculty funding.
Two interns worked under       the direction of IT to redesign the site and engage in promotional social       networking.
New content was added, in particular a new series entitled       `Challenging the Canon', launched 25 July.
As described on the site (http://podcasts.ox.ac.uk/series/challenging-canon),       `This unique mini-series aims to challenge the literary canon by posing       the thorny question "why should we study...?"
to experts at the University       of Oxford.
Beginning with the overarching question "why should we study       the humanities?"
and moving on to illuminating discussions about key       writers... these podcasts will introduce you to new perspectives ... A       perfect study companion for prospective undergraduates, lifelong learners       and literary enthusiasts.'
The redesign was recommended to Apple by Peter       Robinson (IT Services), on the basis that the series `would suit a broad       audience ... would have a lot of varied expert content on `The Canon' and       would be worth promoting IMHO.'
Apple responded enthusiastically,       promoting the series prominently with the advertising hook `Challenging       the Canon' (Ref.
ii).
Activity on Twitter and Facebook led popular blogger       Oliver Tearle to volunteer a wordpress guest blog, boosting the site's       following (Ref.
iii).
At the close of the audited period GWI had attracted       292,110 video downloads and 42,252 audio downloads.
`Challenging       the Canon' has already reached 31,000+ views, 6000+ downloads and is         averaging 1177 downloads weekly (168 daily).
The recent presence of       GWI and CC on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/greatwritersinspire)       and Twitter has to date produced 267 likes and over 400 followers.
The       global relevance and usefulness of the project and its constituent       materials are indicated by the range of countries in which the project       blog has been accessed, including the USA, India, Canada, Japan, as well       as the UK.
GWI's impact in schools has been enhanced by active engagement of       the researchers with teachers through conference participation.
Smith was       invited (in 2012 and 13) to address the eMagazine 6th Form Conference, the       London Association for Teachers of English, and a number of schools       including Queen's Park Community College and Harris Academy Dulwich.
She       used the occasions to introduce teachers and students to the resources.
School English teachers have also benefited from workshops organised by       members of the Faculty with GWI, such as the `Engage' workshop (April       2012), and the `Teaching with Shakespeare's First Folio' workshop (June       2013).
These events (total attendance 52) offered participants       opportunities to engage in resource creation and distribution,       demonstrating a real exchange of ideas and expertise with scholars working       on specific literary themes and topics.
All those who completed feedback       forms thought the workshop `extremely useful'; all but one were planning       to use the First Folio resource in their teaching &#8212; e.g.
by adopting the       workshop `focus on language change and aspects of graphology' and `using       it for Language Change as part of the English Language A-level'.
Many secondary         school teachers have testified to how GWI is enriching their       teaching materials.
`Some of the students have definitely got into       considering writers that they wouldn't have considered before.
For example       two girls were interested in Aphra Behn and they'd never heard of her       before ... [T]he website prompts that sort of thing; students can       investigate aspects of literature that they wouldn't have thought of       before' (A-level teacher, Oxford, July 2012); `from my point of view as a       Head of English it's already fantastically useful.
It contains very       accessible, critical material, contextual material, background material'       (A-level teacher, Derbyshire, June 2012).
`Some students feel that they do       not belong in this literary world - they ask how does this fit in with all       this literature?
Access to [GWI] helps us address this question' (A-level       teacher, Somerset, June 2012).
School students too have benefited       from GWI's encouragement of a wide range of learning styles.
The resources       include items complementary to GCSE and A-level syllabi, as well as       undergraduate level materials suitable for students who can handle more       challenging texts and ideas.
6th form student feedback on a workshop       undertaken by members of Faculty with a local school in June 2012       includes: `It was great learning about Aphra Behn - we'd never heard of       her before and she's really interesting' (Ref.
iv).
GWI also offers life-long         learners with an interest in classic texts a wealth of material.
In       particular the categorisation of resources into themed collections such as       `Feminist Readings of Literature' and `Questioning Genre' has allowed       self- educators to develop their understanding of familiar literary works,       and engage with previously unknown ones.
A beneficiary responds: `For       retired people like me podcasts of lectures (recorded raw, not dressed up       as some have them, complete with distracting background music) are a boon.
Lifelong learning!
Saves us from having to watch "countdown"' (Ref.
v).
Within the HEI, GWI has greatly assisted institutional policy and       practice with regard to creative commons licenses.
The designers and       curators of the project have worked closely with other institutions       possessing experience in provision of free online resources (notably       Adelaide University, which has long been providing free literary etexts       under CC licence; links to many of their texts are provided in supporting       reading lists to GWI material).
The project has raised academic awareness       about open access to research, and encouraged proactive engagement with       the political and legal debates (Ref.
vi).
