     Our research has outlined the importance of environmental aspects (e.g.,       access to green space)       and engaging with communities as important drivers in behaviour change.
The impact of our work       is seen in the positive changes in health behaviours of people from       deprived communities resulting       from research initiatives which address community engagement and       environmental aspects;       sustainable changes after the research was completed; engagement with       stakeholders to influence       practice and policy and dissemination through media coverage.
Our intervention work on the Natural England Funded ProGreSS project       reported improvements in       the 250 residents' perceptions of the park and antisocial behaviour, which       reflected a real       reduction, based on police data over a 12 month period [3, 8].
This is       illustrated in the quote of one       resident who said "I'm not sitting here, watching my window in case they       come throw eggs at me.
I       haven't done that for a good 12 months now since you started all this       kicking it all off.
I think it's       marvellous and it's made our life a lot better."
[8].
In the `My Health Matters' (MHM) project 18,308 people received health       promotion information;       there were 11,525 attendances at community events, and of these 1,678       subsequently engaged on       a regular basis in community events (e.g., regular attendance at physical       activity sessions).
Community engagement is evidenced in that during the project 45 volunteers       and 15 community       champions were engaged and along with 102 partners ranging from large       companies (e.g., B&amp;Q;       Co-Op), service providers (e.g., Citizens Advice Bureau), local charities,       local media and schools       [9].
Levels of physical activity and healthy eating improved in the three       deprived areas where the       intervention took place, and increased social capital was also observed       [9].
The positive change in       health behaviours is reflected in quotations from the residents who       mentioned "every session has       been fun and I have done more exercise now than I have done before" and       "before I did My Health       Matters ...
I wouldn't even try to eat or try a piece of fruit or veg, but       now ...
I eat different fruits and       veggies and things I thought I would never try."
[9].
The sustainability of our impact is evidenced in that the three full time       community development       workers funded by the MHM project have had their contracts extended by       Stoke-on-Trent City       Council [9,10].
Further this work has now been expanded from the three       deprived areas as part of       the original MHM project to up to 18 areas across Stoke-on-Trent [10,11]       under a new My       Community Matters scheme (MCM).
A change in the environment is evidenced       in that the       previously underutilised local assets, such as community centres, and       allotments, have been       developed into fully functioning community hubs staffed by community       groups which, with the       support of the MHM project and other partners, have been successful in       receiving further funding       (&#163;60,000) to develop community provision [9,10].
We continue to support       the evaluation of       community developments work in the city through a part-funded PhD       scholarship (half-funded by       Staffordshire University and half-funded by NHS Stoke-on-Trent) of the new       MCM scheme [10,11].
The sustainability of our impact is also evidenced in the changes in the       physical infrastructure       resulting from the ProGreSS Project, such as opening up densely wooded       parts of the park and       introducing a new play area [8].
Our impact is also evident in our work with stakeholders to influence       practice and policy.
The       findings of the MRC-funded National Preventive Research Initiative [1, 5,       12] that both environment       and engaging with communities at the individual level were identified as       important drivers in       behaviour change provided an important stimulus that led to the formation       of the Healthy Public       Policy Group [13].
This was a collection of key stakeholders from       academia, local authority and the       NHS to ensure that health and lifestyle were considered in local policy       and action (e.g., proposed       planning developments), and providing a sustainable mechanism for       University researchers to       influence local action.
This group ran until 2013.
The work of this group       will now form a part of the       new proposed Centre for Research and Action on Health Inequalities (CRAHI)       a joint initiative       between Staffordshire County Council, Stoke-on-Trent City Council,       Staffordshire University and       Keele University, due for launch in 2014.
This new Centre will be based at       Staffordshire University       and over the next three years will administer a budget of ~&#163;1 million       provided by Staffordshire       County Council and Stoke-on-Trent City Council.
Continued work with the       city council has       culminated in the establishment of a Health Impact Assessment (HIA) Peer       Review service within       the Centre for Sport, Health and Exercise Research, whereby developers       wishing to build in Stoke-       on-Trent must submit an HIA, and we provide a quality assurance service       [14].
Data from the MRC       and MHM projects has also influenced policy, with data highlighting issues       relating to health and       urban planning in the city that stimulated the production of a       supplementary planning document for       Stoke-on-Trent City council [15].
Our expertise has also been recognised by involvement in a major project       in which we continue to       develop a social-ecology approach promoting healthy living with emphasis       on environmental       aspects and community engagement.
We play a leading role in the PHENOTYPE       research       project: a four-year, &#8364;3.5 million, European project to explore links       between the natural       environment and health.
It involves nine partner institutions and this       unit is leading experimental       work into psycho-physiological responses to different types of urban and       natural environment,       whilst making substantial contributions to community survey and       epidemiological work.
One work       package is devoted to working with policymakers and other stakeholders to       ensure that results       develop European implementation guidelines for the design and management       of the natural       environment to maximise health benefit [16].
Our work has been covered in the media [8, 9].
We are also involved in a       learning exchange       initiative between communities in England and the USA.
Under the REACH US       / UK Communities       for Health Learning Exchange Programme representatives from Stoke-on-Trent       (inc. Gemma       Hurst, Research Assistant on the MHM project) visited University of       Alabama at Birmingham       (UAB), and were hosted by the Minority Health Research Centre (MHRC) at       UAB in November       2011 and March 2013.
In June 2012, the US delegation made the return       journey to Stoke-on-Trent.
A partnership between Staffordshire University, Stoke-on-Trent City       Council and University of       Alabama at Birmingham has continued to develop with both institutions       working with partners       towards developing a sustainable smart cities / regeneration hub [17].
