     The impact of our research is in the use by sports teams, sports       governing bodies and organisations of stress management programmes       underpinned by the Theory of Challenge and Threat States (TCTSA), and       where possible enhanced by the protocol for assessing cardiovascular       responses to the psychological stress.
In our typical protocol we have       collected data using impedance cardiography.
Baseline data is collected       while players relax (e.g., for five minutes) and then a psychological       stressor is introduced.
For example players may be told they are about to       take part in an important task and to prepare themselves for that task, or       they may be asked to imagine what it would be like to be faced with a       psychologically stressful scenario.
It is the change from baseline in       cardiac output and total peripheral resistance that indicates a challenge       or threat state.
Players are provided with individual feedback on whether       their cardiovascular responses indicated a challenge or threat state along       with suggestions of how stress can be viewed more positively (if       appropriate).
These suggestions are based on the TCTSA which outlines that       athletes who feel confident, in control and are focused on what can be       achieved (rather than avoiding failure) will respond to situations in a       challenge state.
The benefit of this approach is that it provides an       objective measure of athletes' responses to psychological stress that       predicts performance [3, 4] and is grounded in a theory outlining how       these responses can be changed [2].
This type of assessment eliminates the       social desirability inherent in self-report measures given that an       individual may be reticent to admit concern or doubts about a specific       event to a significant other (e.g., coach or psychologist) in case it is       interpreted as a sign of weakness.
In the work with the players at Nottinghamshire County Cricket Club       Academy and Senior Team [6] and the England under 19 cricket squad we have       tested to date &gt;80 players.
This includes four separate testing       sessions at Nottinghamshire County Cricket Club and three sessions with       the England under 19 cricket squad.
Data were collected on       psycho-physiological responses to being told they were about to take part       in a batting test [see 4 for a description of our initial work].
After       data were collected each player received individual feedback and       suggestions for dealing with psychological stress.
If required a longer       term intervention was developed for the player.
Work using this protocol       is still ongoing at Nottinghamshire Country Cricket Club and further coach       education and mentoring reinforce the concepts in the TCTSA.
Specifically       coaches aim to enhance confidence, feelings of control and an approach       focus in players during training sessions and in preparation for games.
These concepts have also been disseminated through the wider cricket       coaching community to &gt;40 coaches through coach education sessions (run       annually since 2010) for Nottinghamshire county coaches.
In our testing with academy players at Stoke City Football Club during       the 2012-2013 season, we tested 35 players from the U21, U18 and U16       squads.
Data were collected on psycho- physiological responses to       imagining a stressful scenario (i.e., making a debut for the first team).
Each player received individual feedback and suggestions for dealing with       psychological stress based on the TCTSA.
There is further testing planned       during the 2013-2014 season [7].
The incorporation of innovative sport       science initiatives, such as this, contributed to Stoke City achieving       Category 1 Academy status in 2012 and the sport science provision       receiving the maximum possible score [8].
The impact of category one       status is significant, within the context of the Premier League's Elite       Player Performance Plan, as it indicates that an optimal infrastructure is       in place to help develop the young soccer player.
We have also conducted educational sessions based on the TCTSA that has       not involved collecting cardiovascular data, with squads including the       Staffordshire County Cricket Club Emerging Player Program, Nottingham       Forest Football Club Academy, and the British Equestrian Federation-Elite       Performance Squad.
The interest in this approach is growing in the sporting community and       the Great Britain Senior Rowing Team have funded testing for all 60 of the       senior squad to take place in 2014 [9].
In consultation with the Head of       Sport Science and Medicine, and National Performance Psychologist a       protocol specific to rowing has been developed.
First, each athlete will       outline a hierarchy of Olympic Games stressors.
The greatest stressor       identified will be used as the stressor from which psychological and       cardiovascular data will be collected, using a protocol similar to that       employed with the academy players at Stoke City Football Club (i.e., the       stressor is imagined).
The stressors used will differ across the rowers,       so the data collected will be relevant to each individual rower.
For       example, one rower may be concerned about changing boats close to       competition, another may be concerned about an upcoming World       Championships and the influence this may have on selection.
Each rower       will receive a profile on how they respond to that stressor and if       necessary guidance on developing a challenge response.
The rowers will be       tested on at least four occasions in the period in the lead up to the Rio       2016 Olympic games to monitor progress.
We are also planning to use a       similar protocol with the England Futsal team in the 2013-2014 season and       apply it to an England age-group international football team specifically       relating to helping players develop a challenge approach to penalty       shoot-outs [10].
A similar protocol will also be used with Great Britain       Shooting during 2014.
The impact of our work has broadened out beyond sport to be applied in       training days at companies and third sector organisations.
The TCTSA has       underpinned training delivered for Sony Europe and Sony Mobile since 2010.
This includes training delivered as part of the senior leadership       development programme within Sony Europe (2010, 2011).
It also underpinned       a training and development programme comprising five sessions delivered to       25 staff for dealing with the stress of change in the workplace       (2012-2013).
The success of these sessions has meant that Sony Europe have       asked for input in the European Graduate Training Programme along with       further input into in-house training programmes, including the development       of software for mobile devices on stress management and leadership [11].
We have also used the TCTSA to underpin training sessions delivered to       business leaders at the North Staffordshire Chamber of Commerce and as       part of the `Leadership Cafe' to managers at the South Staffordshire and       Shropshire Health Care NHS Foundation Trust.
Staffordshire University has       also funded research (&#163;4,868) beginning in January 2014 to explore the use       of this protocol to help students deal with the psychological stress of       examinations.
This will be a similar protocol to that used in sport       whereby data will be collected on students' psycho-physiological responses       to the exam (e.g., imagining sitting the examination) and if needed, in       line with the TCTSA suggestions around enhancing confidence, control and       an approach focus will help students develop a challenge approach to the       psychological stress of the examination.
The impact of this work is evidenced in dissemination through public       engagement events and invited talks.
Jones has disseminated his research       on challenge and threat states using the Olympics as a context at       prestigious public science festivals (British Science Festival 2012;       Cheltenham Science Festival 2012, 2013).
Jones has also outlined how       understanding challenge and threat responses to psychological stress may       be relevant to osteopaths in an invited talk at the College of Osteopaths       Annual Conference (2013), while Turner addressed a similar topic to       chiropractors in an invited talk at the British Chiropractic Association       Annual Conference (2013).
Barker has presented this research as part of a       session on dealing with psychological stress to coaches at the Great       Britain Archery Sport Forum (2013).
Collectively we have engaged with individual athletes (&gt; 100), and       coaches; we influence practice through engagement with professional clubs       and national governing bodies; and disseminated through public engagement       events and invited talks.
This novel and exciting approach to dealing with       psychological stress has been warmly received by the sporting and business       communities and is evidenced in the amount of work planned that builds on       our impact to date.
