     Clench and Francese's research on mass spectrometry       imaging has impacted upon the pharmaceutical industry specifically with       GSK collaborators (source 1), whilst training of staff from Unilever by Clench's       group at Sheffield Hallam University has facilitated knowledge transfer of       the technique into industry.
Four technologies have been patented with       regards to mass spectrometry techniques and applications, in the UK, EU,       USA and China, two of which are licensed to commercial partners,       Elforlight Ltd (source 2) and Consolite Forensics.
Technique development       work by the Bioanalysis group has changed practice within the       pharmaceutical industry.
Specifically, a sustained professional       relationship with GSK since 2006, with a succession of CASE studentships       (4), has enabled the group to influence the methodology used to assess       drug distribution in animal models.
By allowing faster tracking of       label-free drugs with higher spatial resolution than previously obtained,       this collaborative work has speeded up the drug discovery pipeline.
More       recent work by Francese with the Home Office to embed MALDI mass       spectrometry analysis of fingerprints into routine forensics is gaining       impact.
Francese is working with West Yorkshire Police to provide       information on fingerprint and non fingerprint forensic evidence, which is       feeding into their crime scene investigations.
The technology developed by       Francese is reported in the new 2014 manual of fingerprint       development techniques, edited by the Home Office, as one of the       technologies with strong potential to be adopted by practitioners.
Comments from (source 3) confirms the impact of the technique in forensic       investigations:     `The impact that the MALDI-MSI research can have in fingerprint and         forensic science include increased detections, adding contextual         evidence to cases and providing higher specificity in substance         identification than existing processes'.
`MALDI-MSI offers significant potential to enhance contextual         information that can be obtained from fingermarks, in particular the         presence and location of contaminants of operational interest that may         be present in marks.
It offers other potential operational benefits such         as revealing additional ridge detail that has not been detected by other         chemical/physical techniques, and the separation of overlapping marks        from different donors'         `Recent work to confirm that marks have been deposited in human blood         also offers an improvement in specificity over existing methods, which         only determine whether proteins or haem is present.
This new method may         add confidence to conclusions drawn and overcome arguments often raised         about substances that may give `false positives' with existing         reagents'.
The primary paper (reference 1) reporting findings from the initial       project on MALDI-MSI of small molecules in collaboration with Pfizer       Global R&amp;D, led to the adoption of the technique by pharmaceutical       companies following personal interaction of Clench with scientists       from companies including GSK, Syngenta, Quotient Bioresearch Ltd and       instrument manufacturers Waters Corporation (Source 4).
Clench has       collaborated with Waters Corporation since 2006 and the company has       invested ~&#163;350K p.a.
in MALDI Imaging since then.
A senior manager at       Waters Corporation (Source 4) commented that the company sells 5-10       million pounds worth of MALDI systems per annum of which 30% are for MALDI       imaging.
He also commented 'in the early days (of mass       spectrometry imaging) your help was vital in getting us off the ground').
Specifically in the UK, GSK introduced the MALDI-MSI instrumentation at       its Stevenage site (source 1).
Clench's investigations of       agrochemical distribution in plants using MALDI-MSI resulted in him       participating in a BBC programme "Afterlife - The Strange Science of         Decay", assessing N13 uptake of decayed plant material in       new plant growth by MALDI-MSI.
The programme, which was broadcast by BBC4       on 06/12/2011 and repeated on 06/08/2012, attracted viewing figures of       613,000 and 234,000 respectively (source 7).
Clench's research on       the combination of ion mobility separation with MALDI-MSI has been carried       out in collaboration with Waters Corporation, Manchester, one of the       world's leading instrument manufacturers.
This significant collaboration       started in 2006 and is on-going; Waters Corporation sponsored the       Discovery &amp; Life Science Webinar Series 2013(04/09/2013) in which Clench       discussed progress in MALDI-MSI of biological tissue and Francese       discussed multi-informative analysis of latent fingermarks by MALDI-MSI       (300 participants) (source 6).
Clench's work was, and is, a major       contributory factor in Waters Corporation's decision to invest in       development of MALDI-IMS-MSI (source 4).
Francese's research on fingermark analysis attracted significant       media attention (sources 8 and 9).
Since her initial paper in 2009, Francese       further developed the methodology to aid in the identification of sexual       assault victims and to analyse fingermarks recovered from crime scenes by       standard forensic techniques.
She is funded by the Home Office (2011-2014)       (grant 9) to convert this research into a validated method (source 2).
Francese       co-developed a powder discharge device (patent pending PCT/GB2013/051838)       (with Reed, SHU), which has been licensed to Consolite Forensics for       further development, to enhance the company's sales in the forensics       market.
The initial work was funded through the EPSRC Bridging the Gap       award to SHU.
Francese was featured on: The One Show, BBC1,       24/04/2012 (viewing figures 4,170,000), Fingerprint item; Science in       Action, BBC Radio World Service, 26/01/2012,                http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00n0f3d; and covered in national,       local and specialist press, including The Daily Mail, Yorkshire Post,       Science Daily, Police Oracle and The Engineer.
Clench and Francese provide expert advice and consultancy       to industry through the Unit's analytical services commercial group for       MALDI-MSI, including: Unilever R &amp; D (&#163;21K), Procter and Gamble       (&#163;15K), Croda Chemicals (&#163;43K), and Alk-Albello (Denmark) (&#163;19K), (income       2008 - 10/2013).
The scale of external impact of the MALDI-MSI work at SHU       was evidenced by three Mass Spectrometry open days held on: 29/07/2009, 35       Delegates (10 Industry, 21 Universities, 4 Other, which includes NHS,       Government laboratory staff); 14/07/2011, 111 Delegates (44 Industry, 53       Universities, 14 Other), 10/04/2013, 107 Delegates: 42 Industry, 60       Universities, 5 Other.
The last of these open days was organised in       conjunction with the British Mass Spectrometry Society (source 5).
Two scientists trained in MALDI-MSI by Clench at SHU are now       exploiting this expertise, one at Novartis, Basel, Switzerland and a       second at instrument manufacturer Shimadzu, Manchester, UK, the latter as       the Global MALDI Applications Specialist.
Clench's first PhD       student at SHU (completed in 2005) in MALDI-MSI was appointed as Head of       MALDI-MSI at the National Physical Laboratory in 2013.
In 2007/8 Clench was appointed as the British Mass Spectrometry       Society (BMSS) Lecturer in recognition of his research expertise in       MALDI-MS; he currently leads the Imaging Group within the BMSS.
The award       enabled Clench to share his expertise through a lecture series in       the UK on MALDI-MSI.
Francese shared her expertise in MALDI-MSI with       attendees at the International Symposium on Pharmaceutical and Biomedical       Analysis in Bologna, Italy in 2013 (source 10).
Further demonstrating the       impact and importance of Clench's expertise, and the interest in       the technique by the healthcare community in the EU, he was appointed UK       member of the Management Committee of EU COST Action BM1104 "Mass         Spectrometry Imaging: New Tools for Healthcare Research"       (2011-2015).
