     Biologically functionalised coatings for mitigation of corrosion and         biofouling     Our biologically functionalised coatings technology has been recognised       as a promising and potentially transformative technology, with diverse       applications in medicine and engineering; this has occurred, through the       initial publication in Advanced Functional Materials (reference 2),       together with national and international presentations made by Smith         TJ and collaborator Akid.
Presentations on the anti-corrosion and       anti-fouling technology delivered to audiences with substantial commercial       representation have included: an oral presentation at "Advances in         Corrosion Protection by Organic Coatings" (Cambridge, 2009) (source       6) that was also reported as a paper in ECS transactions, student poster       prizes and associated publicity from conferences at the Materials       Knowledge Transfer Network (London, 2009) (source 7) and Royal Institute       of Structural Engineers (London, 2010) and invited joint oral       presentations by Smith TJ and Akid at two meetings at The       Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (Industrial uses of         bacteria and Cleaning up antifouling, both held in London       during 2010) (source 8).
In addition, the favourable outcome from the       Yorkshire Concept funded project in showing the feasibility of the       anticorrosion coating in the marine environment, which was publicised via       the funder's website (source 9) and reference 2, led to enquiries from at       least 10 companies during the period 2009-13.
Interested companies in the       anti-corrosion and antifouling coatings industry included: International       Paint, (a subsidiary of AkzoNobel N.V., the world's largest coatings       manufacturer), which worked with us under the EPSRC Follow on Fund grant       (2011-12) (grant 7) providing access to its field test facilities (source       1).
Given the magnitude of microbial induced corrosion and biofouling       problems, especially in the marine engineering sector as well as other       industries (including transport infrastructure, power industry, etc.
),       there is an acute need for non-polluting new coating technology to be       developed further.
Together with the need to move away from established       biocide-based technologies, due to increasingly stringent environmental       legislation, this issue has advanced commercial interest in the coating.
Identified beneficiaries include the shipping industry, off-shore power       generation companies with structures in the marine environment, as well as       diverse sectors where the corrosion and fouling of materials in the       environment is a threat (source 2).
Coatings and antibiotics in orthopaedic surgery     Presentations relating to the medical applications of antimicrobial       coatings have included the International Conference on Antimicrobials       Research (oral presentation, Valladolid, Spain, 2010) and the Federation       of Infection Societies (poster, Manchester, 2011), both with substantial       representation from industry and clinical medicine, and also national       meetings for microbiologists, surgeons and device manufacturers with       interests in treating orthopaedic infections held in Sheffield in 2011 and       2012.
Following these events, a number of medical device manufacturers       have held meetings with us, under 'confidentiality agreements', on their       interest in the antibiotic sol- gel coating for orthopaedic devices.
These       manufacturers include De Puy Orthopaedics (2008), an international device       manufacturer part of the Johnson and Johnson Group, and Biomet UK, an       advanced engineering and manufacturing technology orthopaedic joint       replacement company, Bridgend, Wales.
Our funding from MRC precludes any       exclusive relationship with commercial partners.
However, we plan to seek       a commercial partner on completion of the current MRC- funded (grant 8).
Collaboration with NHS consultant orthopaedic surgeons at the Sheffield       Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (STH NHS FT) (source 3) on the use       of the antimicrobial coatings resulted in further applications of the       coating technology in relation to infection control following joint       replacement operations.
In addition, our discussions with orthopaedic       consultants and the work reported in reference 4 have led to industry- and       NHS-funded contract research to provide information about the suitability       of new antibiotics for incorporation into orthopaedic cement to inform       clinical practice and to help combat increasing antibiotic resistance in       the clinical arena.
The Sheffield Teaching Hospital Research and       Development Fund supported Smith TJ in delivering two projects in       2012: on `Clinical use and underlying elution characteristics of combined       gentamicin and daptomicin in orthopaedic cement' (value &#163;2,800); and       `Quantifying elution of antibiotics vancomycin and gentamicin from       orthopaedic cement samples; physical strength testing of samples' (value       &#163;3,000).
These projects were funded to address specific needs for       knowledge to inform clinical practice in orthopaedic surgery.
Information       about the activity and elution of the antibiotics from cement was required       by surgeons and clinical microbiologists to determine which antibiotics       could be used in orthopaedic cement in difficult-to-treat cases of       revision surgery.
Source 3, a nationally recognised senior consultant       orthopaedic surgeon, has commented on this work: "Collaborative         research with the BMRC at Sheffield Hallam University evaluating the         elution properties of different antibiotics from acrylic bone cements         has made a significant impact in the management of difficult         periprosthetic joint infections."
Results have been communicated to       clinicians in the STH NHS FT and will be submitted to peer reviewed       journals shortly.
Through collaboration with clinicians, Smith TJ       secured an introduction to Heraeus (source 4), a manufacturer of       orthopeadic bone cement; this led to Smith TJ advising the company       on measurement of elution rates of antibiotics from bone cement and to our       performing laboratory tests to characterise the elution of antibiotics       from their products.
Work this the pharmaceutical manufacturer Eumedica       included supply of the antibiotic temocillin, which together with funding       via a `student into work' grant (&#163;2000) June-August 2012 (from the Society       for Applied Microbiology) allowed us to establish that temocillin remained       active after curing of bone cement and eluted on a timescale that suggests       it would be appropriate for use in surgery.
Funding for a larger project       was provided by Pfizer PLC via an Anti-Infectives Research Foundation       grant (2010-11; &#163;46,750) to Smith TJ and Akid in MERI at SHU; this       project investigated the elution of antibiotics linezolid and tigecycline       to assess their suitability for use in orthopaedic cement (source 5).
Further to this, we have engaged in knowledge transfer with the       orthopaedic department of STH NHS FT by training three orthopaedic       registrars (junior clinicians in orthopaedic surgery) in methodology and       theory relating to measurement of antibiotic elution from orthopaedic       cement.
