     Professor Woodroofe has contributed to impact activities targeted       at two non-academic, MS-related       audiences: (i) people with MS and their families and (ii) healthcare       professionals working       with people with MS.
Harnessing Woodroofe's communication skills,       academic expertise and       knowledge, these activities enabled beneficiaries to gain a better       understanding of the context in       which biomedical MS research is undertaken.
These activities have helped       to shape science       communication practice, particularly in relation to MS, informing and       stimulating debate, increasing       understanding and awareness within the MS patient community and healthcare       professionals       involved in their treatment.
(i) Public engagement activities:     MS Life is an annual event organised by the MS Society, with       exhibitions and talks on MS-related       topics, including research, held in Manchester (2008, 2009 and 2012) and       in Gateshead (2010).
Woodroofe, together with Professors Baker, QMC London and Amor,       Free University,       Amsterdam, developed a `meet the scientist' stand using their       underpinning research in MS to       engage the public in activities designed to promote understanding of the       damaging processes       occurring in the brain in MS patients and how current treatments act on       these processes.
The       `meet the scientist' stand was presented at all four MS Life events with       over 3000 delegates over       two days attending each event (source 1).
A small field laboratory,       including microscopes, brain       tissue slides, and pipettes and reagents for cell culture, was installed       to give 'hands on' experience       of a research laboratory.
Posters explaining aspects of MS and its       treatments were on display and       a brain model that could be disassembled and reassembled was used to aid       learning.
At a knitting       event in 2012, participants produced woollen neurons and brain cells,       which were incorporated into       a large tapestry display, serving as a focal point this created an       environment conducive to       reciprocal learning (source 6).
The key to the success of these events was the sharing of information       among scientists and       participants, informing and stimulating discussions, and increasing       understanding and awareness.
In addition to participants benefiting from increased understanding of MS       research, researchers       also gained insights into participants' attitudes to, and experience and       knowledge of, biomedical       science.
An on-line survey conducted by the MS Society in 2012 revealed       that the 'meet the       scientist' stand received the highest proportion of positive comments       (29%) from the event, scoring       the top-rating within the survey.
The field laboratory activity was       sponsored by the British Society       for Immunology at Cheltenham Science Festival (06/2011).
A spokesperson       commented: 'Thank         you very much for coming along to support MS: the big knit.
It was         brilliant to have you there to         answer people's questions properly and to really explain and show them         with the microscope what         happens in MS' (source 2).
Buddy/Partnership Scheme: Woodroofe's research group was one of       the first to pilot the MS       Society Buddy scheme, which provided an opportunity for people with MS to       engage in the practice       of science and to inform and shape future research questions.
The scheme       was rebranded as 'The       MS Society Research Partnership' and in 2008, three people with MS were       partnered with the       Woodroofe group (Grant 9).
The MS partners commented that they       welcomed gaining increased       knowledge of MS; it was a two way communication, in that researchers also       gained from learning       about their clinical condition (source 3).
These exchanges stimulated       debate by raising       understanding and awareness of research knowledge and insights into MS.
This scheme was       awarded the Association of Medical Research Charities award for best       public involvement       programme in 2009 (sources 7 and 8).
(ii) MS healthcare professionals in Sheffield region     In 1994, Woodroofe initiated collaborations with consultant       neurologists specialising in MS. At this       time there was limited MS research within Sheffield Teaching Hospitals,       despite there being a large       population of people with MS in the region (2,900 patients).
Working with       service providers, these       collaborations encouraged the mutual sharing of expertise promoting       further opportunities for       researchers to engage with patients.
Six MS-related papers have been       published with Woodroofe       as main author with clinicians as co-authors, evidence of the impact of       the research on clinicians       within Sheffield.
An annual MS conference aimed at nurses,       physiotherapists, GPs and neurology       clinical trainees in Sheffield has been established by a consultant       neurologist (source 4).
In 2009,       2010 and 2011 Woodroofe and her research group were invited to       present their research to       around 100 delegates at each event.
One delegate commented 'These         presentations were a key         part of all the meetings and contributed substantially to their success.
In addition, Professor       Woodroofe displayed an impressive enthusiasm to         communicate her understanding of MS and         her research results and its practical implications for people with MS'       (source 5).
