 In addition to scientific expertise, Jones brought essential commercial and KT know-how to this impact.
He developed this through extensive engagement with KT activities within MERI, including: 3 years (2009-11) in a 0.5 FTE "KT Champion" role; and leadership of R2i (2007-08), a Yorkshire Forward and ERDF funded programme for the provision of innovation assistance in materials and engineering to organisations in South Yorkshire (see REF3a(b)).
In 2008, seed-corn support from the R2i programme [i] funded the feasibility study from which XeraCarb developed.
Support for the subsequent research phases was garnered through Jones' knowledge of MoD and TSB funding processes and priority areas [ii-v].
In 2011, on the basis of the research described in section 2, Jones and Pick won the Worshipful Company of Armourers and Brasiers' (WCAB) Venture Prize [A].
This prize, awarded each year to the UK's most promising development in materials science, carried with it a &#163;25k venture capital investment.
This resource, together with a further &#163;75k which it leveraged from Finance Yorkshire ([B,C]), was used to establish XeraCarb Ltd (Company No.
07738054) [D] in 2011 as a spin-out with the primary purpose of exploiting the IP in Jones and Pick's materials.
At this stage, Jones, Pick, SHU, WCAB and Finance Yorkshire [C] were the company's shareholders.
During its first 6 months of operation, XeraCarb recruited an entrepreneur with substantial experience of successful start-up companies as CEO [E].
In preparation for the next investment round, the IP from the initial research was formally transferred to the company's ownership.
As well as supporting Jones' work within MERI, SHU contributed to XeraCarb's development by providing strategic commercialisation management advice.
In particular, market research and business planning recommendations provided by the technology transfer staff in the University's Research and Innovation Office (RIO) were instrumental in shaping XeraCarb's progress.
The market research, in particular, upgraded the prospects (and the investment potential) of the embryonic company since it identified markets for the new materials beyond the initial focus on body-armour applications.
In September 2012, armed with this market information, XeraCarb  attracted a further &#163;550k investment from Finance Yorkshire [C] and two independent investors.
This valued the company at ~&#163;1m even before production facilities were in place.
Patent applications were made in late 2012 [4,5] in order to realise the tangible IP required to secure this investment.
In holding this valuable IP, XeraCarb's shareholders are identifiable beneficiaries of this impact.
Again, RIO provided strategic advice and legal assistance in the drafting of these Patents.
In early 2013, XeraCarb set up a production facility in Barnsley, South Yorkshire and appointed a Plant Manager, Business Development Manager and factory operatives.
These employees are another group of beneficiaries.
Production equipment was installed, in particular a 2m3 capacity furnace capable of 1500&#176;C, designed by the company to carry out the in situ reaction sintering process.
By July 2013, the company had a board of 5 including a non-exec independent investor, a CEO, 3 FTE employees plus Jones on a 50% sub-contract basis funded by his Royal Society Industrial Fellowship [vii].
Plans were to expand staffing to &gt;8 within the first year of production.
The markets identified by RIO and the progress made within them in the REF impact period were as follows: (i) Kiln Furniture Xeracarb's materials have good strength which is retained to temperatures of 1400-1500&#176;C. They also possess considerable thermal shock resistance.
This combination of properties makes them well-suited to supporting items being heated or fired such as porcelain, sanitary ware and superalloys.
The global market for such kiln furniture is $300m, with $100m in the EU.
Xeracarb's kiln furniture materials, Xerabond &#8212; KF [F], have been placed on trial at Steelite, one of the UK's leading porcelain manufacturers, and a range of components are available commercially.
Agents/suppliers such as IPS Ceramics have been in negotiation with XeraCarb to supply/stock this kiln furniture.
(ii) Armour XeraCarb's Xerabond &#8212; AP materials [G] are suitable for use in hard plate armour applications such as bullet proof vests and vehicle armour [H].
The US market is $570m for all armour systems, with the EU plus other global markets approaching a similar size.
The UK MoD's DSTL has tested Xerabond &#8212; AP materials in ballistic scenarios.
Test details and results are restricted, but it is pertinent that DSTL has continued to support and encourage the development of the materials and the progress of XeraCarb.
DSTL has a remit to ensure that the UK retains a reliable and sovereign armour ceramics manufacturing base.
Consequently, DSTL is a beneficiary of this impact since XeraCarb is the only supplier enabling it to meet this requirement [J].
Recognising XeraCarb's position as an essential supplier for future UK armed forces capability, DSTL has awarded it a &#163;284k, 2-year contract [vi] to develop pressure-cast versions of the current UK armour system.
This work will aim to achieve rapid manufacturing capability and improved material properties and consistency.
Requests for trial materials have also been received from eight UK manufacturers of armour systems / armoured vehicles.
At the close of the REF impact period, trial components were being tested by three of these manufacturers.
(iii) Abrasion-resistant components/refractory materials Potential products in this category include nozzles and pipe liners for abrasive-materials-handling and gas burner nozzles for furnaces.
The market is estimated at &gt;$100m globally.
A number of alternative material compositions have been developed, targeted at applications for which cheaper and/or more wear resistant materials are required.
Trial wear-tiles have been placed with Broadbents Ltd, a major UK manufacturer which supplies centrifugal mineral dewatering machines globally.
Wear- and high-temperature-corrosion-resistant grades have also been trialled by Omegaslate Ltd. Also, a refractory nozzle supplier (Melle Ltd) has requested design and manufacture of test nozzles for gas burner applications.
A 15 month TSB SMART Proof of Concept award, with a project value of &#163;175k [v], has been won to develop and test further material grades suitable for a range of abrasive wear and refractory applications.
