     Research insights impacted on policy within the two themes outlined in       Section 2.
Key beneficiaries were central government, devolved       administrations and other regional and local agencies.
First, knowledge         regarding the rationales and challenges of implementing the cohesion         agenda and an understanding of factors limiting its effectiveness       (Refs 1, 2), informed a series of evaluations and the provision of         advice and guidance to policy.
An evaluation of the role of housing       in promoting community cohesion as part of the National Evaluation of       Housing Market Renewal (2009), explored Pathfinder approaches to       mainstreaming cohesion, which revealed a lack of understanding about what       community cohesion was and what Pathfinders should be aspiring to achieve.
In response, recommendations and guidance on good practice were provided,       and fed back to Pathfinders through personal communication in a bid to       prompt improvements in policy and practice.
In turn these were       disseminated nationally in a Department for Communities and Local       Government (DCLG) published report (Housing Renewal and Community       Cohesion, 2009), which secured coverage in the professional press (Inside       Housing 28/10/09, Regeneration and Renewal 2/11/09).
Subsequently,       Robinson and colleagues were commissioned by the Bridging Newcastle       Gateshead (BNG) Pathfinder to conduct research and to develop a strategy       for promoting cohesion in meeting housing needs through housing market       renewal (G4).
Delivery of this contract involved the provision of advice       to BNG officers on an on-going basis about how to open up new housing       opportunities to different ethnic groups and to manage the cohesion       challenges that might ensue.
In a report to the Audit Commission, the       strategy produced by CRESR was credited by BNG with helping to ensure that       housing market renewal responded to the needs of all groups within the       pathfinder area and in promoting cohesion (S6).
Research insights also enhanced development and delivery of the Welsh       Government's community cohesion strategy.
Robinson and colleagues were       commissioned to evaluate the national cohesion strategy for Wales (G10).
Regular feedback, recommendations and guidance were provided to civil       servants in the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Division during the two       years of the evaluation through numerous feedback and briefing sessions at       Welsh Government offices.
Recommendations directly informed Ministerial       decisions about the future direction of policy.
For example, the       evaluation raised concerns about a lack of strategic thinking and limited       attention to mainstreaming among local authorities.
In response, the Welsh       Government promoted the development of local strategies and funded the       appointment of a network of dedicated cohesion officers across Wales       charged with promoting collaborative working and in mainstreaming the       cohesion agenda (S1).
CRESR was also commissioned to author guidance on       mainstreaming cohesion for local authorities, which was published by the       Welsh Government (S8).
As part of the evaluation of the national strategy,       the CRESR team also provided the Welsh Government with detailed advice       about how to measure cohesion and specific advice regarding cohesion       questions to be included in the Living in Wales survey.
Robinson also       authored guidance on community profiling and tension monitoring, designed       to enhance the practice of local authorities in Wales.
This was launched       by the Minister in 2011, forwarded to all local authorities in a bid to       support good practice, and made available as a free download on the Welsh       Government's website (S8).
This built on research exploring determinants       of community relations in the context of new migration (G11), and applied       research testing techniques for promoting engagement between long-       standing and newly arrived residents in Bradford (G8).
The impact of this       work is confirmed by the comment from a senior civil servant in the Fairer       Futures Division of Welsh Government that this body of work was "influential         in the development of a model in Wales of Regional Community Cohesion         Co-ordinators...to mainstream work on community cohesion.
Further         recommendations from the evaluation have ensured that there is a key         focus on the delivery of community cohesion in Wales, where a renewed         action plan is being developed in 2013.
The guidance has ensured that         Co-ordinators are delivering work consistently, with coverage across all         22 local authorities in Wales" (S1).
Second, research insights played an important role in informing the         terms and influencing popular and political perspectives about one       of the most divisive issues associated with new migration: access to         social housing.
Empirical insights into the housing experiences of       new migrants (Refs 4,5) and quantitative analysis of the profile of A8       migrants in social housing in England (S5), were referenced in a report on       housing allocations to the Migration Impacts Forum (2008), a government       convened group exploring the local level impacts of migration.
The       professional journal 'Inside Housing' drew on these findings to challenge       comments by the Margaret Hodge MP about migrants living in social housing       (S6).
Subsequently, Robinson was commissioned by the Local Government       Association (LGA) to deliver one of three pieces of analysis examining       whether there was any validity in the contention that recent migrants had       received preferential treatment in social housing allocations (S7).
This       evidence informed the letter subsequently sent by the LGA to all local       authority chief executives in England clarifying the facts about the       allocation of housing to migrants (08/04/08).
Research in the field also       led to invitations to briefings and presentations challenging thinking and       policy.
Examples include briefings to: civil servants in DCLG and the Home       Office (30/01/08); practitioners and policy officers from local       authorities on the Yorkshire Migration Partnership (25/03/11); and the       first meeting of the Housing and Migration Network, which brought together       policy makers and practitioners to develop ideas for improving the housing       of refugees and new migrants (15/10/09).
Findings emerging from five evaluation reports (2010-2012) into the       effectiveness and efficiencies of local and national initiatives       supporting the integration of refugees (G9), helped the Home Office to       deliver on its obligation to evaluate and to learn from, European Refugee       Fund and European Integration Fund initiatives and to share such insights       with other EU states (S2).
Key insights from research also informed Home       Office understanding of the impacts of migration and options for       monitoring these effects through Robinson's membership of a Home Office       expert panel on the impacts of migration on public services in England       (2012).
Other contributions include a presentation on the local impacts of       migration to an invited audience of 30+ government policy makers, civil       servants and voluntary and community sector interests, as part of the       Westminster Breakfast Briefings series on migration convened by the       University of Oxford, discussing topical, cutting edge research on       migration related issues (22/06/12).
In 2013, Robinson was recruited to       provide expertise on housing, migration and cohesion to the Homes and       Communities Agency's (HCA's) Equalities and Diversity Advisory Group,       which advises and challenges the HCA on all aspects of its work.
