     Between 2008 and 2013, Ridley-Duff and Coule developed an impact strategy       using knowledge exchange projects, teaching support and dissemination       activities that contributed to professional development.
Impact 1 - Catalysing Insights in Social Enterprises:       Voluntary Action Rotherham (VAR), a lead voluntary organisation in       Rotherham, Yorkshire was an organisation that participated in a SHU funded       knowledge exchange project ('Bridging the Divide: A Corporate Governance       Pilot Project" (Mar - July 2008)).
VAR trustees used governance       diagnostic tools created by Ridley-Duff and Coule to reach a view that       their governance practices were pluralist with a stakeholder orientation.
In contrast, VAR executives used the same tools to form a view       that their organisation's governance was unitary with a managerialist       orientation.
A dialogue was established between trustees and executives       and "within one week, the CEO of the partner organisation requested       [internal] follow up actions related to...board maintenance and       development, board/staff communications, and involving members in       governance" (source 5.1).
Viewpoint Research CIC was one of five social firms who used the same       governance diagnostics during a Business Link Innovation project       ("Workforce Participation" (Reference IV-18-18 June-July 2009)) (source       5.2, 5.3).
Viewpoint (which has 15 staff in Leeds, Sheffield and       Doncaster) enhances the employability skills of people disadvantaged in       the labour market.
As the MD of Viewpoint explained:     To actually have discussion - not just around the difference between         entrepreneurial and managerial [governance], but also democratic and         co-operative structures and ways of making decisions - it changed my         view [and] led directly to the workforce participation project [...].
There was a tangible outcome [...] that led to the development of a         staff council which is the vehicle by which staff now have a say and         influence in the running of the company.
(source 5.2)     In September 2012, a case study of the follow up workforce participation       project (Sept 2010 - Feb 2011) and its impact on Viewpoint was presented       to the UK Society for Co-op Studies (source 5.3).
Impact 2 - Embedding Insights in other HEIs' Curricula:       Ridley-Duff's and Coule's findings profoundly influenced the writing of Understanding         Social Enterprise: Theory and Practice (Ridley- Duff and Bull, 2011,       Sage Publications).
They contributed case studies based on their research,       their governance diagnostics and numerous learning materials to the book's       companion website (source 5.4).
By 2013, there were 1791 sales from Sage's       UK office (of which over 200 went to the `Far East'), 217 from its US       office and 47 from its India office.
There have been adoptions for 14 UG       and 12 PG courses in the UK, Ireland, Austria, Germany, France, Greece and       Switzerland.
It is the core text for nine, recommended for 11 and       supplementary for six (source 5.4).
Impact 3 - Embedding insights and impacts through knowledge exchange       The governance diagnostics and case studies underpin the workshops on day       2 of the "Co- operative and Social Enterprise Summer School" (run annually       since July 2010).
These summer schools are organized by SHU in       collaboration with Social Enterprise Europe, Social Enterprise Yorkshire       &amp; Humber, Co-ops Yorkshire &amp; Humber and Co-op Business       Consultants.
The workshops attract co-operative and social entrepreneurs,       British Council workers participating in a Skills for Social         Entrepreneurship Programme, HEI support staff and lecturers       embedding social entrepreneurship programmes in HEIs in the UK, Asia and       Africa.
Ninety-six people have attended the school.
Impact 3 evidences the       link between research outputs, learning activities at the summer school,       and changes in professional practice.
One impact of the summer school is demonstrated through activities by       members of Social Enterprise Europe (SEE) which is an international       network of social enterprise educators who attended (and later       co-delivered) the summer schools.
After the 2011 summer school, SEE's       consultants redefined social enterprises as organisations that "are       governed, owned and managed as democratic socialised enterprises".
As the MD explains:     "Directly after the discussions we had about socialisation and         stakeholders, we changed our slides to include 'socialisation' [...] The         definition we put forward prompted emails from Indonesia         and Malaysia saying `this will be our definition of social enterprise         from now on'...we [also] got emails from Vietnam and Korea where they         said they [...] would use it as their standard."
(source 5.5)     Reach was increased after a blog on Social Enterprise Yorkshire &amp;       Humber's website was reproduced on the Guardian Social Enterprise Network       in August 2011 (source 5.6).
This attracted the CEO of the Social       Enterprise Mark Company to the International Social Innovation Research       Conference in London (Sep 2011).
Her debate there with Ridley-Duff       triggered further blogs and public debate (5.7).
Reach also grew after       Ridley-Duff's visit to Indonesia in 2012 (brokered by Social Enterprise       Europe / British Council).
Impact is evidenced by a British Council       project worker using Ridley-Duff's materials to explain `socialised       enterprises' to local entrepreneurs (source 5.7).
Three summer school participants drew directly on case studies in       Ridley-Duff's work (reference 3.3) to create the FairShares Model       (source 5.8).
This not only creates a set of brand principles to       facilitate the auditing of communitarian pluralist design principles, but       also advances new model Articles of Association to embed these principles       in social enterprise start-ups and conversions.
The FairShares Model       integrates multiple-stakeholders by offering: Founder Shares to       entrepreneurs; User Shares to customers; Labour Shares to       employees; and Investor Shares to represent the capital created by       them.
In March 2013, five management consultancies backed the creation of the FairShares         Association to support the use of the FairShares Model in       their work (source 5.8).
This has attracted a further 34 educators and       consultant members who now contribute to a FairShares Wiki (source       5.9).
The FairShares Association LinkedIn Group had 216 members (as at       26/4/2013).
Social Enterprise Europe's MD, a co-founder of the association, explains       how it has changed their work with enterprise educators in the UK and       overseas (source 5.5):     "We are writing a step by step guide for teachers to set up a         FairShares Company in schools... [British Council contacts] in South         East Asia...are much more comfortable with the politics of it than we         are....[We organize placements for] the very prestigious Hong Kong         Business School [and] are meeting one later this month who has graduated         and is now a practising lawyer who wants to talk to us about the         FairShares Model."
