     Research evidence has had national reach, informing policy and         practice development on PSHE and school-based health services -       significant priority areas within New Labour's `Every Child Matters'       agenda.
The largest ever study of PSHE in England to date (G2) was funded       to inform government policy and has guided work in this area (described by       a DfE representative in April 2013 as "a key source of evidence", S1).
The       research was cited in a Parliamentary debate by Schools Minister Nick Gibb       in March 2011 (see Hansard, S2) and has shaped a member of the House of       Lords' proposed Children and Families Bill amendment (via telephone       discussions with research staff, July-Sept. 2013).
National organisations       lobbying for continued or improved PSHE provision and resources have drawn       on evidence about the variability and perceived importance of provision in       their responses to the government review (Nov. 2011), citing findings       about uneven/unsupported provision to argue for the statutory inclusion of       PSHE in the curriculum (see S3 examples).
This research has also informed       briefings for Parliament on the Education Bill (June 2011), particularly       about the need for well-qualified staff (S4).
Evidence about the need for       training for PSHE teachers, and to support good practice in schools, has       been utilised in CPD by the PSHE Association (June 2011, S5), and the       National PSE Association for Advisors, Inspectors and Consultants (email       correspondence, 17.4.2013, S6).
Practitioners and advocates in local       authorities and charities have used evidence from G1 and G2 to establish,       defend or extend their PSHE and/or health service provision (email       correspondence, April 2013, S6).
SRE research for Leicester City Council       (G3) which highlighted weaknesses in provision led to them recruiting a       Strategic Lead for SRE to support city developments; since then they have       recorded a reduced teenage pregnancy rate (Teenage Pregnancy Coordinator,       11.7.12).
This work, and linked presentations by Hirst, has informed       national SRE resources on masturbation and sexual pleasure produced by the       Centre for HIV and Sexual Health amid much national and international       media interest (July 2009, see S7).
Nationally, findings about the nature and impact of homophobic and       transphobic bullying (R6/G6) have been utilised by practitioners to raise       awareness and to evidence the need to improve or target support: for       example, a specialist article commissioned by the British Association for       Counselling and Psychotherapy (in Children and Young People, March       2013) drew on research findings to suggest that individual counselling may       not be the most appropriate/appreciated form of support for LGBT young       people, arguing that broader inclusive education practices would be more       beneficial.
This research has also been reproduced in teaching materials       used to raise class-based awareness (`Issues today' and `Issues: LGBT       equality' school resources: Independence Educational Publishers, 2012).
Findings from G6 have informed the development of new cyber-homophobia       resources following Formby's participation in an `experts seminar' at DfE       (Nov. 2012) where she presented critiques of bullying discourses and       associated counselling support to policy makers and practitioners.
Because       this area of work frequently has to be defended or justified, this       research has had national reach and has been used by a range of public and       voluntary sector organisations since Nov. 2011 to support their work       and/or raise awareness: for instance, local authority staff have       distributed and discussed G6 findings with managers and colleagues to       underline the need to address homophobia and transphobia in schools (email       correspondence, April 2013, S8).
G7 has also been cited by LGBT community       organisations in their delivery and planning, for instance in applying to       fund a `safe LGBT space' through community cafe provision (LGBT Youth       North West, March 2013) and feeding into workshops to identify community       needs at the launch of a community-led initiative, LGBT Sheffield (July       2013).
In addition it has informed local authority LGBT hate crime       reporting and community safety planning (email correspondence, April 2013,       S10).
The research has also contributed to public interest and debate,       with national and international reach.
Findings have contributed to media       and public debate about homophobia and transphobia in school, via       interviews and discussions (Nov. 2011) on BBC Radio Manchester (LGBT       Citizen show) and BBC Radio Sheffield (Drive Time programme) which have       highlighted issues beyond peer bullying in identifying the prejudicial       practices of some schools and/or teachers.
An article in Pink News       (Europe's largest online gay news service) in November 2011 reporting       these findings was the `most read' and `most discussed' item on the site,       with 109 reader comments and 624 Facebook `likes' (see S9).
This debate       also featured in practice-orientated publication (Children and Young         People Now, November 2011), and in international media coverage       (e.g.
Huffington Post in the USA; Narobe in       Slovenia; XQ28 in Denmark, all Nov. 2011).
It resulted in a       subsequent letters debate about LGBT (in)equality in the Sheffield         Star.
Evidence from G7 has improved knowledge about the meaning and experiences       of UK LGBT communities, and implications for LGBT wellbeing.
There has       been supportive and enthusiastic feedback about the project report and       public engagement event from LGBT community members (see S10, 2012-2013),       as well as media interest (Nov. 2012) in the gay press (Sosogay),       international press (Rainbow Sudan), and regional media (Yorkshire         Times).
The final project event (which was highly over-subscribed,       Nov. 2012) was designed to stimulate discussion about the meaning and       desirability of constructions of `LGBT communities'.
It led to very       positive feedback from attendees (a mix of 80 project participants,       practitioners, academics, and the general public), with comments including       "inspiring" and "brilliantly informative".
Practitioners emphasised how it       would inform their practice: "I found the conference very interesting and       it gave me some idea's to discuss with [an LGBT forum]"; "It certainly       gave me some food for thought regarding trans provision for young people".
The long-term impact of improved professional awareness and practice is       therefore on enhanced support for young people, though individual young       people have also benefited directly from involvement in the research       through being enabled to share their collective experiences.
