     The researchers contributed to the activities of the AHRC         Transatlantic Middlebrow Network and played a substantial part in       promoting the middlebrow and literary hierarchy as distinct areas of       study, as evidenced by the referenced key publications (especially 1, 2,       3, 4).
The Final Report to the AHRC from that project (Prof F. Hammill,       Strathclyde) outlined the Special Collection at SHU as a follow-on project       which has subsequently been substantially achieved: 'In our application,       we identified a possible follow-on project with a particular value for       non-academic audiences.
This was the establishment of a freely-accessible       repository of popular fiction which is now out of print.
This has actually       been accomplished within the span of the funding.
Dr Mary Grover, the       third member (with Brown and Hammill), of the Network's Project team, has       established a Special Collection, 'Readerships and Literary Cultures       1880-1950', at Sheffield Hallam University.
This has been done in       collaboration with Professor Chris Hopkins, who has done much to forward       the joint effort of Strathclyde and Sheffield Hallam Universities in       establishing and expanding the Network'.
The decision to build a unique scholarly, publicly-available resource to       support further work on this topic at SHU stemmed directly from presenting       research within the Network and subsequent publication (reference 3       includes essays by 11 Network members).
Alison Light was appointed       Visiting Professor of Popular Literature (2011-14) to help develop the       Collection, as was an external steering group (Hammill: Strathclyde,       Jobey: Sheffield City Libraries, Waller: Roehampton, Wild: Centre for       History of the Book, Edinburgh).
The decision to build public engagement       into Special Collection activity was itself a result of research findings       about the ways in which many kinds of widely-experienced popular and       middlebrow texts and reading experiences have been excluded from being       studied, valued, preserved and remembered.
The Special Collection aimed to       create a scholarly / community forum where such material would be       researched, co-researched and become a legitimately-recognised focus for       cultural and personal development.
It has bought into being or supported       four overlapping public groups: a) Friends of the Special Collection - 136       on the mailing list, excluding academics; b) Reading groups: three groups       of eight readers drawn from the general public; c) the 'Reading Sheffield'       community history group, made up of 12 active interviewers, together with       60 interviewees in Sheffield; d) the Reading 1900-1950 blog       community (http://reading19001950.wordpress.com/).
Friends attend the regular public events of the Special Collection.
The       Reading groups discuss the novels and gather particular sets of data (e.g.
references to taste, popular or 'highbrow' authorship) from collection       novels, which are added to the Special Collection enhanced cataloguing       templates on the University Library online catalogue, which is publically       accessible (80 records completed).
The 'Reading Sheffield' group has       recorded 60 oral reading-histories from a systematic sample of Sheffield       citizens who became adults in the city between 1945 and 1960.
The Friends       of the Collection and the Reading groups are directly part of the Special       Collection public engagement programme, while Reading Sheffield is an       independent community group which has received scholarly advice, in-kind       assistance and funding from the Special Collection (including for       training, events, transcription and permanent preservation of interviews).
The Reading 1900-1950 blog has extended our reach: it had 223       followers, good quality posts on 86 novels and 344 comments on these       (31/7/13); new postings are also announced via Twitter.
51% of visits are       from the UK, 49% are international, with 32% consisting of visits from the       US, Canada and Australia, and 17% from the rest of the world.
There is a       distinct blogging community which focuses mainly on fiction from this       period and our blog is linked to from several of these (e.g.
Literary         Taste, Great War Fiction).
We have also circulated a hard       copy edition of our Newsletter (see http://reading19001950.wordpress.com/newsletter/)       to any beneficiaries who do not have on-line access.
This has been       particularly valued by some elderly or housebound participants: '`Many       thanks for your Spring Newsletter.
Even if I don't make the meetings in       Sheffield I enjoy reading about the various projects' (1/5/2013).
Reciprocal links have also been established with Sheffield Libraries: the       Special Collection website (http://www.middlebrow-network.com/SpecialCollection.aspx)       points people towards their store of out-of-print fiction, and we have       placed a book plate about the SHU collection in books in the store.
This       brings the Collection and its work to the attention of readers who order       books from Sheffield Library's store.
The beneficiaries of this impact are principally life-long readers of       fiction in Sheffield and environs.
They have been invited to participate       through 1) publicity distributed through Sheffield City Libraries,       especially to its network of reading groups; 2) publicity in city       bookshops; 3) digital social media focusing on South Yorkshire; 4) the       media, with two newspaper articles and two radio-interviews about the       collection since 2009; 5) a regular newsletter distributed in hard and       e-copy.
The Reading Sheffield project has had a particular group of       beneficiaries as well as the interviewers: many of the target group of       readers are aged between 70 and 90 with mobility issues and were recruited       through Sheffield's Mobile Library Service.
Interviewers' visits to their       homes and a subsequent celebratory communal event were valued for adding a       social aspect to private reading, as well as valuing their experience,       tastes and memories.
The impact on beneficiaries has been to create       several comfortable but informative community spaces where they could       share regular learning and conversation about particular texts, reading as       an activity, judgements about reading, and personal and more formal       histories of reading popular fiction (see brief documentary commissioned       to record celebratory event: http://vimeo.com/58095219).
Participants in public events were able to listen to and question invited       speakers on popular and middlebrow fiction, as well as to see the       University Library / Special Collection as a freely accessible public       space and resource.
Reading Group members and oral-history interviewers       have entered more deeply into this benefit through working actively to       produce new research material.
In both cases, a leisure activity has been       put into conversation with current academic research in the Humanities.
Research by Reading Group members informed the keynote presentation by       Hopkins and Brown at the conference `Space and Place in the Middlebrow'       (London University 14/9/13).
The extent of the impact is evidenced by       average attendance at six public events (40 members of the public), by the       Friends' mailing list (136 addresses), by emails and letters received       about the Collection (some 100), by public donations of relevant editions       (initial donation of 450 volumes supplemented by 550 further editions), by       involvement of 24 reading group members, of six oral history interviewers,       by the 60 oral histories collected, and by traffic on the Reading         1900-1950 blog, which has had 14,202 page views.
The quality of the       impact can be evidenced by feedback from beneficiaries: '`Light is thrown       onto the past, books are unearthed and read once more, a community that       would never seek to identify itself as one is created and flourishes' (http://literarytaste.wordpress.com/2012/11/21/a-liebster-award/),       `brought out for me in a very clear and entertaining way the fascinating       intent to give serious study to something which is essentially of a       popular nature'; 'has given many retired people and other committed       readers a chance to contribute something really worthwhile to their local,       forward-looking university and to Eng Lit.'
(emails 15/12/11; 24/10/13).
In addition, Reading Group members said they read 'with more attention',       'more closely and more critically', 'more carefully and learn more'       (questionnaire).
This range of activities produced the five types of       impact outcomes listed in the Summary above and evidenced in 5.
Dates of impacts.
Public events: 21/6/2009, 10/6/2010, 9/12/2012,       22/6/2012, 19/10/12, 14/6/13; Reading Groups monthly 2012-13; Reading       Sheffield meetings and interviews 2010-13; blog 2012-13.
