     Building on the research and publications detailed above, impact has been       developed in two ways.
First, through pivotal roles in two community       projects, one in London and one in Edinburgh, which aim to gain national       public recognition for leading British women anti-slavery and feminist       activists.
Reflecting the broader dearth of public monuments to women in       Britain, these individuals have not hitherto been commemorated by public       memorials despite their local, national and global significance to the       history of the development of progressive politics.
Secondly, Midgley's       research underpins her consultancy role with English Heritage in       progressing their agenda of increasing the public visibility of the       hitherto under-represented national heritage of women through addressing       the challenges of women's continuing marginalisation in public narratives       of national history and the tendency to dismiss as insignificant women's       domestic, private and local associations with England's heritage.
`Mary on the Green' project: commemorating Mary Wollstonecraft       Midgley has played a key role in initiating a project to erect the first       public memorial to the founder of modern feminism, Mary Wollstonecraft.
Her involvement draws on research insights into the history of the       development of British feminism in the context of the anti-slavery       movement (Reference 1, Chapter 1).
These explored the pioneering role in       women's entry into public life played by women like Wollstonecraft who had       strong links to cultures of rational dissent and Unitarianism (References       3 to 6), and the historical significance of memorialisation in making       visible women's public activism (Reference 1, Chapter 4).
The move to       erect a memorial to Wollstonecraft was stimulated by Midgley's       co-organisation of a week-long series of public commemorative events       celebrating the 250th anniversary of Wollstonecraft's birth, held at       Newington Green Unitarian Church, London in 2009 and attracting audiences       of up to 120 people drawn from the local boroughs of Hackney and       Islington, the London Unitarian community, and London-based feminist       activists and politicians Midgley produced a booklet on `Mary       Wollstonecraft and the Dissenters of Newington Green', 800 copies of which       were distributed to the public at these events and at subsequent church       and local community events and the annual London `Open House' day (Source       1) The booklet was republished as an article in the local Islington         Archaeology and History Society Newsletter [ISSN 1369-3751] Autumn       2009, pp.
3-7.
These activities led to an invitation in May 2010 to       address the AGM of Newington Green Action Group, an active community group       leading the regeneration of the area, about Wollstonecraft's local links       and her global historical significance, and a summary of Midgley's talk       was posted on their website at:       http://newingtongreen.org.uk/ngag/prof-clare-midgleys-talk-mary-wollstonecraft       The enthusiasm generated by Midgley's talk resulted in a unanimous vote by       the 50 people present to launch a fund-raising campaign to erect a local       memorial to Wollstonecraft (Source 2).
The `Mary on the Green' project       committee was set up, and it has to date raised over &#163;20,000 and is       currently beginning the process of selecting a sculptor and memorial       design.
Midgley stimulated additional local interest in the project       through a talk on Wollstonecraft at International Women's Day celebrations       sponsored by Islington Council in March 2013, attended by around 100       people (Source 1).
`Women on the platform' project: commemorating Scottish women           abolitionists and feminists       Midgley is expert academic advisor (with James Walvin, Emeritus Prof.,       University of York) to a women's history group in Edinburgh that is       generating public support for a permanent memorial to three local women       who played leading roles in the anti-slavery and feminist movements.
She       was involved in the successful bid made by the group (part of the Adult       Learning Project at Tollcross Community Centre in Edinburgh) to the `All       Our Stories' Heritage Lottery Fund for their project (ref no: AS-12-03653       - funding for the period January to December 2013).
Midgley gave a talk to       around 20 members of the group in January 2013 which highlighted the       transatlantic dimensions of links between abolitionism and feminism       (Reference 2) and the leading role of women in the boycott of slave-grown       produce (Reference 1, Chapter 2).
Feedback from the group's tutor (Source       3) stated: `This fed directly into our lottery projects and was hugely       valuable to us.
We now have headings, sources and further topics to fill       in the social context for our studies, and Clare could not have been more       helpful and constructive in her support for our project'.
This new       knowledge and understanding fed into the group's organisation of the       public launch of the project in Edinburgh on 7th June 2013.
This included involving those who attended in painting pots with slogans       such as `sugar not made by slaves' to echo the activities of the       nineteenth- century abolitionist women described by Midgley, and to       encourage links with contemporary ethical consumer campaigns.
Midgley's       public lecture `Campaigning women: abolitionists and feminists in       nineteenth-century Edinburgh' formed the central focus of this public       launch event.
As well as covering some of the same ground as her earlier       talk, this drew on additional research (References 3, 4) to explain the       significance of the fact that the group of Edinburgh activists all came       from Quaker backgrounds.
Around 90 people attended, including activists       from Edinburgh-based women's, migrant welfare and adult education       organisations, teachers and pupils from Edinburgh schools, interested       members of the public, and representatives from Women's History Scotland,       the National Library of Scotland, Glasgow Women's Library, the Mapping       Memorial to Women project, and the Glasgow- based Mary Barbour       commemorative project.
In a feedback questionnaire (Source 3) completed by       attendees, comments on Midgley's talk included `a fascinating topic',       `excellent' and `I want to find out more', with particular interest       expressed into insights exploring relationship between Quakers and       anti-slavery, links between abolition and feminism, and men's treatment of       women at the World Anti-Slavery Convention.
This event also began to       generate ideas from the public for the forms that memorialising the women       might take; Midgley's involvement in the project is on-going.
English Heritage: under-represented groups and the historic           environment       In May 2012 Midgley was an invited academic expert participant in a       one-day seminar on `Women in England', part of a series of seminars       through which English Heritage (EH) consulted about the significance of       the historic environment for groups currently under-represented in its       work.
This consultation was part of EH's National Heritage Protection Plan       (NHPP), an initiative to determine how to manage a prioritised programme       to identify and protect England's heritage.
The seminar brought together       Midgley and seven other academic, community and museum experts with seven       senior members of EH staff.
Midgley's contributions drew on her range of       recent research into the history of English women's involvement in public       life and activism (References 1 to 5) to suggest the need for EH to take       account of women's distinctive, but often invisible, relationship with       both private and public spaces when protecting and presenting heritage       sites (Appendix 5.5.7).
It also drew on her research into transnational       networks of reformers (References 5, 6) to stress the importance of giving       public recognition to England's international links and to the, at times,       transient heritage associated with visiting activists.
Her recorded       suggestions (anonymised but with the identifier [W1]) were included in the       report Responses from the Consultation on Under- Represented         Heritages, which collated responses from the 80 expert participants       in the series of consultative seminars.
This report was presented to the       NHPP Implementation Board in October 2012 and published on the EH website,       with EH's official response published on the website as A Response to         the BOP Consulting Report from English Heritage (Source 5).
Midgley's input contributed to the recognition in the report of the need       to consider smaller sites, common places and whole areas or linked sites,       the need to make more available information on the huge range of sites       reflecting the history on non-elite groups, and the importance of       documenting the heritage of transient communities.
EH is currently       developing further detailed practical action plans to address the       implications of the consultation.
As a result of her participation in this       consultation, Midgley has been placed on EH's advisory list of experts,       and participated in the annual consultation survey on the NHPP (February       2013) (Source 4).
