     Dr Verdon has contributed to impact activities with museums, theatre, and       the broadcast media.
These activities have harnessed her academic expertise and applied them to       a number of projects       relating broadly to the social and economic history of the British       countryside in the nineteenth and       twentieth centuries.
They have enabled different groups of communities &#8212;       exhibition audiences,       actors, and TV viewers &#8212; to engage with, and interpret, various aspects of       modern rural history.
Museum curatorship       In 2011 Dr Verdon was the guest curator of an exhibition at the Museum of       English Rural Life       (MERL) entitled 'Land Ladies: Women and Farming in England, 1900-1950'       (Source 6).
This ran       from January to April 2011.
It was publicised widely in both the local and       national press, receiving       notices in, amongst other outlets, The Times (March 3, 2011),       Radio Berkshire's Anne Diamond       show (March 1, 2011) and a two page spread in the BBC's Who Do you         Think You Are?
Magazine       (April 2011, sales 22,000).
The aim was to broaden the public's       understanding of the history of       agricultural work and was attended by a total of 7,900 members of the       public.
The exhibition       focused on Verdon's research into women's involvement in agriculture, and       centred upon one of       the key contentions of her research &#8212; that women remained important, even       vital, to many       developments in modern farming in the first half of the 20th       century (References 2, 4 and 5).
Verdon was the sole author of all the exhibition banners, which had to       condense into 150 words       each the history of women in farming for a public audience.
There were 10       banners and the topics       covered were agricultural education for women, rural women's       organisations, women's work in the       dairy, with poultry, in agricultural field work and horticulture, the role       of farmers' wives, women       farmers, and the impact of the Second World War.
She worked closely with       the curatorial staff to       choose appropriate photographic/printed images and exhibits from the       museum collections for       display (Source 1).
This exhibition was part of a MERL case-study       undertaken under the auspices       of the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement to cement the       relationship between       external academic researchers and MERL's public programme (Source 7).
It       was accompanied by       a public lecture, `Business and pleasure: women, work and       professionalization of farming as a       female career in England, 1900-1950' given by Dr Verdon at MERL on March 8th       2011 to mark       International Women's Day (attendance: 50).
Theatre       Since 2010 Verdon has worked with New London Theatre's production of       Michael Morpurgo's `War       Horse'.
Much of the first act of the play is set on a farm in Devon in the       early 20th century.
She has       worked with four successive casts of actors since 2010, conducting       day-long workshops on the       history of rural England before 1914 with the full cast (up to 25 actors       at each workshop).
Her       research expertise has shaped how actors understand and approach their       roles.
They carry out       research on their characters prior to the seminars and then discuss their       ideas, issues and       problems with Dr Verdon.
The workshops make a link between Dr Verdon's       research interests and       the key strands of the play: family farming (the use of family labour and       the role of the farmers'       wife), farm production (labour on the land and the use of horse power),       and rural social relations       (class and gender in the countryside) (References 1, 3 and 5).
The       Associate Director of the play,       who liaises with Dr Verdon has explained the impact her sessions have had       on directors/actors,       and ultimately the audience: `'Your knowledge of this time and the         people who lived during it         allows the actors, and us, to really understand the situations in which         these people lived, thus         bringing life to the characters more accurately ... this results in a         more visceral experience to the         audience as the characters are real rather than caricatures ... your         visits give us immediate access         to this time and place' (Source 3).
Media       Dr Verdon's expert knowledge has also been drawn upon by the broadcast       media and she has       made substantial contributions to several high-profile radio and TV       programmes including Open         Country (Radio 4), Victorian Farm (BBC2), Mud, Sweat and         Tractors (BBC4).
All of these, and       those outlined below, involved considerable dialogue between Dr Verdon and       the show's       producers/researchers, via phone/email to establish the research context       and main issues, and in       person on `set'.
Contributions since 2011 are detailed here.
Wartime Farm (Lion TV, Episode 2, BBC2, first broadcast September       13th 2012, audience 2.7       million on the night; 3.84 million including repeat and i-player viewing).
An on-air contribution was       made, with Verdon helping two of the programme presenters make silage.
The       dialogue       concentrated on the substantial contribution women made to farm work,       including areas of       innovation such as making silage, stored fodder for animal feed, which the       government       encouraged during the war.
The audience appreciation measure for this       programme was very high       (score of 88 = highly rated by viewers).
According to the programme       Director 'Verdon's         contribution, including 'generosity in terms of her time and sharing her         knowledge', were an         'amazing asset' and 'instrumental ... enabling the producers to explore         the stories of women that         have hitherto been little seen on television'.
She concluded that 'as         a result of her close         collaboration with us, a slice of the history of rural women has been         brought to an audience of         millions.'
(Source 4) Immediately after this programme was aired Dr       Verdon was contacted by       several other non-academic agencies connected to the promotion of farming       history.
As a result       she gave a public lecture on the history of women's work on the land at       the Yorkshire Museum of       Farming, February 23rd 2013.
Her talk linked the contribution       made by the Women's Land Army to       the broader history of women's work in agriculture across the 19th       and early 20th centuries.
The day       included oral contributions from five women who had served in the WLA in       Yorkshire, followed by a       Second World War themed tea and was attended by 82 members of the public.
In summer 2013       an article by Dr Verdon appeared in Heavy Horse magazine on the       history of women's association       with working horses on the farm, commissioned by the editor after watching       Wartime Farm.
The Restoration Man (Channel 4, first broadcast January 27th       2013, audience 1.88 million).
This       programme was centred on the restoration of a 19th century farm       and piggery in the village of       Egmanton, Nottinghamshire.
Dr Verdon assisted the researcher in putting       together the history       sequences in the early stages of the programme, offering advice on the       types of sources to consult       when researching farm/agricultural history, and analysing the content of       these sources.
Dr Verdon       went on to feature in the programme as an `Historical expert', guiding the       presenter through the       census returns for the farm between 1851 and 1911, outlining how the farm       family household,       including living-in farm servants, changed over time (Reference 1).
She       then assisted with the `fact       checking' after the filming.
The programme researcher commented that Dr       Verdon `ensured the         accuracy of the historical claims made in the programme' and helped         `shape the content of the         history sequences' (Source 5).
Sunday Supplement (BBC Radio Wales, first broadcast July 7th       2013, audience 22,000).
This is the       flagship weekly politics show on BBC Radio Wales, which reviews and       previews the key issues in       politics relating to the region.
Dr Verdon was interviewed by the       presenter on the history and role of       the Agricultural Wages Board, to provide context to the Welsh assembly's       debate on whether to       reform the Board after it was axed by the UK government in 2012 (Reference       3).
Prior to appearing       on the show she provided the producer with an in-depth history of the AWBs       in the 20th century,       which was then used to inform the direction of the live broadcast (Source       2).
