     1.
Military and civilian training     The primary research in Helmand province was documented through an       extensive photographic record and detailed diary.
Two debriefings took       place on return to the UK in December 2007: one with Ministry of Defence       officials in Whitehall; the other with Wellcome curatorial staff.
This       testimony precipitated a substantial re-evaluation of the War and         Medicine exhibition design and its development.
Cotterrell was       subsequently invited to share his observations with individuals,       organisations and government agencies in order to support greater       contextualisation of their experiences and agendas.
In Afghanistan (April       2008), Cotterrell presented to the ISAF joint chiefs of staff at the       British Embassy and to NGO, and embassy, representatives from Canada, the       UK, the US and other nations at the Turquoise Mountain Foundation in Kabul       (S3).
In the UK, he delivered presentations to the Critical Care Air       Support Team (RAF Intensive Care evacuation team) at RAF Lyneham (Sept       2008) and to the Royal Army Medical Corps (201 Field Hospital Regiment,       2009 and 208 Field Hospital Regiment, 2012) (S2).
Recognition that the extensive and potentially indefinite care pathway       could not fully be understood by any one professional participant led the       Department of Health to commission Cotterrell to access UK civilian and       military medical facilities in order to build the first contemporary       record of the extended healthcare pathway.
Between February and July 2009,       Cotterrell observed and documented CCAST hand-overs at Birmingham       International Airport/Queen Elizabeth Hospital, secondary operations and       trauma care at the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine (RCDM), Selly Oak,       and physical occupational therapy at Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre       (DMRC), Headley Court (S4).
This record is used by the NHS to inform the       general public through its NHS Choices website (S7), viewed by over 38,000       individuals between July 2009 and June 2012.
It has been championed by the       Surgeon General, and is being used by the DoH and MoD to demonstrate       ongoing integration.
Cotterrell's comprehensive documentation was used in       February 2010, at the request of the Chief of the General Staff (CGS), to       modify RSOI (Reception, Staging and Onward Integration) in-deployment       briefings for soldiers, medics and civilians to incorporate for the first       time comprehensive documentation of the post-injury casualty pathway.
2.
Contemporary art discourse     Within the research project's proposed museum and gallery context, two       public exhibitions were realised in London of new time-based       installations, photographic series and video works (War and Medicine,       Wellcome Galleries, December 2008 (R1), and Aesthetic Distance,       Danielle Arnaud contemporary art, January 2009 (R3)) (S1, S2 &amp; S3).
Accompanying and contextualising the exhibitions, extracts from       Cotterrell's diary, and selected photographs were published in books by       Black Dog Publishing and Wallstein Press (English/German translation)       (S1).
Selected press outlets were allowed access to elements of this       documentary material, with The Guardian printing a selection as a       four-page feature (24/11/08) (R2).
In November 2008, Cotterrell's work was       discussed on BBC Radio 4's Front Row, Start the Week and Today       programmes and BBC On-line and Broadcast programmes.
Subsequently (between       November 2008 and January 2009), diary extracts, photographs and       exhibition documentation were reprinted and discussed internationally in       the Lancet, BMJ, Health Service Journal, Art Review, Frieze, Creative         Review, Museums Journal, RSA Journal, Soldier, RUSI Journal, in       national and international newspapers (Times, Telegraph, Guardian,         Financial Times, Wall Street Journal) and in on-line contexts       including service personnel discussion groups, anti-war web-sites,       cultural and news forums.
Interviews and documentation were also broadcast       on CNN, BBC and SKY news channels.
(S8)     `War and Medicine' attracted over 100,000 visitors, offering a heightened       awareness of an under- represented aspect of conflict (S6).
The exhibition       toured to the Deutsches Hygiene Museum in Dresden, 2009 (S9) and finally       to the Canadian War Museum, in Ottawa, 2011 (S1).
Extensive press coverage       and public debate occurred at each venue and total visitor numbers for the       touring exhibition exceeded 250,000.
Individual works were subsequently       included in Afghanistan (Wolverhampton Art Gallery, 2010), Dislocations       (MoCA, Zagreb, 2011), ISEA/Istanbul Biennial (Sirket-i Hayriye Art       Gallery, 2011), Medicine on the Frontline (Imperial War Museum,       North, 2012- 13) (S2) and Engines of War (Gasser Grunert Gallery,       New York, 2013).
A portfolio of evidence of the above is available from SHU on request.
3.
Patient recovery and understanding     While the focus of the project when undertaking the commission to work       with the Wellcome Trust in 2007 had been to provide a catalyst for greater       public debate regarding the human cost of war, it became clear that the       research had the potential to offer insights to individuals and       organisations involved in military medicine.
From February to November       2009, Cotterrell visited each soldier who he had witnessed being seriously       injured during his short time in Helmand.
In consultation with their       clinicians, he provided individuals with documentation of the medical       procedures, which had occurred during their time in the field hospital,       evacuation and subsequent treatment in the UK.
These meetings with       recovering soldiers allowed individuals to reconstruct a lost narrative,       providing a bridge between the radically altered sense of personal       identities experienced prior to, and post-injury.
The understanding of the value of this more open approach was shared by       clinical staff and patients, and precipitated the development of improved       patient diaries offering a visual and textual record of their treatment.
Cotterrell presented his findings to the clinical teams at Queen Elizabeth       and Selly Oak Hospitals (S4) and to the wider medical community through a       keynote lecture at Tate St Ives for the Association of Medical Humanities       annual conference, July, 2010 (S5) and a paper at the Royal College of       Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow 2nd Triennial Conference, 2011.
