 The underpinning research through interaction with policy makers and practitioners has raised the profile of regeneration internationally and in the UK across government (DCLG, devolved administrations), investment fund managers, advisers and investors.
Research funded by ESRC/ODPM/RICS in developing the first UK property regeneration index has proven to be the catalyst for the change in sentiment towards investment in areas undergoing regeneration.
The recognised importance of the `pilot' index developed by the research team at Ulster and the significance placed on this research by government and industry is encapsulated by the subsequent initiation and production of the UK Urban Regeneration Property Index by the Investment Property Databank (IPD).
The chairman of the Regeneration Index Committee responsible for production of the UK index offers testament to the pioneering role of the research at Ulster in `paving the way' for the development of the IPD regeneration index (corroborating statement 1, source 5.1).
A written response (June 2011) submitted by Igloo Regeneration to the DCLG Regeneration Select Committee details the role of the research team at Ulster in developing the evidence base that changed regeneration investment decision making (source 5.2).
The importance of the regeneration index in offering a robust and credible evidence base of risk-return performance of regeneration areas has been articulated by the Homes and Communities Agency (http://www.homesandcommunities.co.uk/news/regeneration-investment-demonstrates-surprising- resilience-according-ipd).
Further evidence of the significance of the research, its recurring influence on policy development and reach is evident across the REF cycle.
The 2010 DCLG report entitled `Valuing the Benefits of Regeneration &#8212; Logic Chains and Literature Review' incorporates findings from two of the studies undertaken by Ulster reiterating the leading role of the research in initiating and establishing performance benchmarking within regeneration property markets (source 5.3).
In 2011 the Scottish Government Social Research report entitled `Town Centre Regeneration: How does it work and what can be achieved' utilised the underpinning research at Ulster to inform policy making on investment performance in relation to town centre regeneration (source 5.4).
Internationally, the Johannesburg Development Agency (February 2009) made sustained reference to and adopted the research undertaken at Ulster in analysing area based regeneration initiatives to inform policy development (source 5.5).
The research on BIDs at Ulster, including the annual Nationwide BIDs Survey, has been instrumental in shaping best practice with findings adopted by policy makers and BID companies respectively.
Impact has been significant in relation to the activities of BID companies but the reach has been wider, with beneficiaries including policy makers, retailers, city councils, town centre management companies, the Inter Bank Rating Forum, the British Retail Consortium and the British Council of Shopping Centres (corroborating statement 2, source 5.6).
On the policy side, evidence presented to the Welsh Assembly Enterprise and Business Committee articulated the role of the survey in relation to the operational performance of BIDs.
In Notheren Ireland , research undertaken for Belfast City Council on BIDs was referenced in the subsequent NI Assembly Social Development Committee research paper and informed the August 2012 publication of the Assembly Business Improvement Districts Bill.
The research team were invited in November 2012 to present the findings from the 2012 Nationwide BIDs survey to the NI Assembly Committee for Social Development (source 5.7) in their scrutiny of the draft legislation for NI.
The evidence provided was considered to be objective, quantitative and based on real examples, it helped the Committee to clarify a number of issues, alleviated concerns the Committee had about a mandatory levy being imposed under the prevailing economic circumstances and led to the Committee supporting the provisions of the Bill (corroborating statement 3, source 5.8).
The investment vehicle strand of the underpinning research has influenced international policy in respect of regeneration and essential infrastructure provision.
Specifically, the significance of the RICS commissioned research on PPP and PFI disseminated at launch events (2011) in Dehli, London and Washington is reflected through its reach across policy makers, investors, contractors, advisory groups and end users (corroborating statement 4, source 5.9).
Subsequent input to the policy agenda in the UK was facilitated through meetings with the Government's Property Unit, the head of PPP policy at Infrastructure UK and HM Treasury.
This culminated in a formal approach from HM Treasury to the RICS requesting their insight and understanding to the `call for evidence' pertaining to the reform of PFI.
The RICS response extensively utilised and referenced the research at Ulster.
Pertinently, the HM Treasury publication `A New Approach to Public Private Partnerships' (December 2012) advocates four key strands of the guidance and direction contained within the RICS submission and directly related to the underpinning research namely contract standardisation, contract flexibility, more effective awareness, management on the part of the client and reduced procurement timeframes.
In the Americas, the research has had particular resonance, the depth of its reach and influence on the policy agenda is evidenced by a series of high profile roundtable and cross-stakeholder discussions (corroborating statement 5, source 5.10) including the initiation of collaboration between the research team and the Canadian Council for Public Private Partnerships on the development of best practice.
The global significance and reach of the research is further demonstrated by a presentation to the Vice-Governor of Sao Paulo by the RICS Chief Executive as part of the UK trade and investment mission to Brazil in 2012 with the PPP report forming the basis of discussions on infrastructure procurement and delivery.
