     Findings from the Promoting Sustainable Performance project have       been used as the basis for practical interventions amongst over 300 Kent       smaller businesses, informed 12 policy organisations, underpinned support       sector activity by industry associations and informed a pioneering       executive education programme for ambitious owner-managers.
4.1 SME executive education     Since January 2008, representatives of over 300 Kent SMEs have attended       one of 17 workshops based on project findings (5.9).
Each provided       owner-managers with practical solutions that they can apply back in the       workplace.
The success of these workshops led to the launch of The         BIG Journey in 2012, a pioneering executive education programme for       small to medium-sized enterprises.
Course content draws directly on Promoting         Sustainable Performance and the related ESRC Business Engagement       initiative (3.4).
The nine-month BIG Journey curriculum provides evidence-based       learning for participants who often have no formal academic       qualifications.
The programme focuses on everyday business priorities       through a set of six highly practical two-day modules, bound together by       in-company support and challenges.
The BIG Journey has an initial       intake of 10 participant firms, who joined in January 2012 with a further       eight joining in April 2013.
To date, participants have reported the following specific outcomes (5.4):     "The programme so far has helped me to secure a contract to the value of       &#163;1m."
Town &amp; Country Cleaners     "The programme has quickly driven me to expand internationally.
Following       attendance at the first module I attended a trade fair in Germany and       secured 25 new customers"       Fabricsmart     "Our turnover has grown by a 1/3rd as a direct result of the programme"       Positive Noise     "`I have secured three new local customers (cafes)"       Slim Sam's Cakery     "We've got &#163;30k of new orders as a result of the programme"       62 Design     "We have smashed our targets, both for revenue generation and machine       utilisation...total manufacturing variance is down from Nov 2012 and our       scrap rate fell by 1.5% down to 2.2%...our labour rate variance reduced by       17% and direct labour credit earned from production rose by 23%"       Flambeau Europlast     In summary, the first BIG cohort has reported an average increase in       sales turnover of 18.8% and an increase in employment levels of 13.6%.
This means that the first cohort added &#163;2.8m to the Kent business economy,       created 111.5 new FTE jobs and achieved an average growth in sales per       employee of &#163;24,830 (i.e.
19.4%) (5.4).
4.2 National and local policy     Twelve local, national and international government bodies and industry       associations have engaged with Promoting Sustainable Performance       outcomes including: the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills       (BIS); the UK Commission for Employment and Skills (UKCES); the European       Social Fund; the Federation of Small Businesses; the Manufacturing       Advisory Service, Kent County Council; Medway Council, Canterbury City       Council; Business Link; Kent Channel and West Kent Chambers of Commerce,       the Kent Economic Board (KEB) and the Kent Economic Development Officers       Group (KEDOG).
These organisations engaged with the project via the       steering group or a dedicated policy workshop hosted by the research team       in July 2011 for 10 policy organisations.
The team further engaged the policy community through an accessible lay       report of project findings (5.2) published in 2012.
The response       to this report includes the following comment from the Deputy Director of       the Business Improvement Delivery Team within the Enterprise Directorate       of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills : "I'd like to make       sure that analytical and strategy colleagues here in Enterprise       Directorate see the report...I also wonder if it might be worth a more       detailed conversation about methodology and the work of the Centre" (see         corroborating contact No.
2)     The analytical and strategy unit of the Department of Business Innovation       and Skills on SME Growth also commissioned a presentation on project       findings in 2009, delivered to over 30 members of their London and       Sheffield strategy teams (5.6).
The research team was also commissioned to write a briefing paper for the       UK Commission for Employment and Skills (5.1) by its Head of       Research that was used for internal briefings in 2012 to "inform thinking       on approaches to Investors in People marketing" (5.7).
At a local level, the Economic Strategy Officer of Kent County Council       also commissioned the team to write a report on regional business support       in 2011(5.3).
Medway Council used project findings as part of its 2012 `Invest in       Medway' strategy and highlighted the BIG Journey as a resource for local       businesses on its          website and commented on the project's contribution, as follows:     "Medway Council very much values the research contribution (Promoting       Sustainable Performance) makes to our thinking on economic       strategy/development and have therefore been part of the project's       steering group since 2008...CECG has also assisted us with a key       contribution to Medway's inward investment website on SME growth, which is       due to be launched in July."
(5.8)       Principal Economic Development Officer, Medway Council (name supplied)     4.3 Industry associations and corporates     Promoting Sustainable Performance is also used by industry associations       and larger businesses with an interest in supporting the SMEs who form       their client base.
The Manufacturing Advisory Service funded the research team to facilitate       a network of regional business leaders during 2009 and 2010.
The network       included 12 Kent-based firms involved in some aspect of manufacturing or       supporting manufacturers.
They each attended six networking and coaching       sessions over a twelve month period.
As a consequence, one participant       (ladies' fashion retailer, Tube Fashion) reported diversifying its project       range and attracting new clients.
Meanwhile, graphic design and marketing       company, PDS-Hamiltons, reported improved negotiations with suppliers (5.5)     The Courier Media Group sponsored a business network during 2011, with       four seminars facilitated by the research team and attended by a total of       57 local SME participants.
Kent accountancy firm, Burgess Hodgson, also       sponsored five similar seminars in 2011, with each event attended by at       least 40 of its 250 clients.
