     (i) Commercial licensing to companies       The GMPR research-based technologies have been patented and licensed to       companies in Europe and in the USA.
Non-exclusive licensing agreements       with Adatis GmbH of Nurnberg, Germany (July 2009 and Feb 2011) has enabled       that company to develop a line of access control products using both 3D       and 2D face recognition algorithms developed at SHU (the Face Entry line       of products in [Source 1].
In particular, we provided close assistance to       Adatis on porting the algorithms to their hardware.
Furthermore, a number       of 3D algorithms were customised to the characteristics of their       processors.
The licensing agreement was based on an access fee of 40,000       GBP for the source code, plus a share of the royalties on a sliding scale       for all Adatis products and derivative products using algorithms and       methods developed by GMPR.
The licensing agreement with Polyskopos Inc San       Jose, California (Jan 2012) follows on the same lines but this is       exclusive to the USA market.
The access fee to Polyskopos was stipulated       at 50,000 US Dollars plus a share of the royalties from all products and       derivatives containing or using original or modified GMPR algorithms.
Polyskopos' business plan is ambitious, targeting various sectors       including medical and entertainment markets.
We also signed a technology       cooperation agreement with xCAD Solutions GmbH, Leoben, Austria (Aug 2012)       to develop 3D scanning solutions for the furniture industry.
Key factors       are our fast and accurate acquisition technology, our pattern recognition       algorithms, and methods for face recognition in 3D and in 2D.
(ii) Transferring knowledge to SMEs       The GMPR research outcomes are being transferred to SMEs across Europe       through the EU funded MARWIN project (FP7 Research for the Benefit of SMEs       2011-2013, 7 partners [Source 2].
The MARWIN project provides a cognitive       3D based vision system for robotic welding tasks, in which welding       parameters and robot trajectories are calculated directly from CAD models.
This is a revolutionary concept in robot welding tasks designed to       increase overall productivity and quality of welding assemblies.
The GMPR       technologies are a critical component of the MARWIN system and several       alternative designs of a 3D vision system have been developed.
The SMEs in       the project are from Spain, The Netherlands, Bulgaria and Hungary.
They       own the rights to commercialise the 3D technologies within the MARWIN       solution while SHU profits from background IP royalties and also through       exposure to such markets.
The EU funded ADMOS project (FP7 Research for       the Benefit of SMEs 2013-2015, 7 partners) is another vehicle transferring       GMPR technologies to SMEs across Europe.
The aim of the project is to       provide intelligent analytics on outdoor media by analysing and       categorising passers-by.
ADMOS tracks people and determines their       approximate age and gender and whether or not they have noticed the       advert.
GMPR technologies on real-time detection and tracking, recognition       and depth estimation are critical to the project.
There are four SMEs on       the project from Belgium and The Netherlands, Spain, and Hungary.
They own       the rights to commercialise ADMOS technologies while SHU will benefit from       background IP licensing.
(iii) The social and cultural context of our research       With regard to impacts on society and culture, the JISC e-Content       Programme provided funding in 2011 for the 3D scanning of Museums       Sheffield Metalwork Collection [Source 3].
This collection has a       designated status, meaning it is internationally important.
Scanning and       modelling the metallic objects was extremely difficult due to their       shininess and complex surface shapes [Source 4].
Our research on       structured light methods using both multiple and single stripe scanning       was crucial in overcoming these problems.
This project produced a digital       record of the collection, thus helping wider understanding of the city's       contemporary and historical contribution to the metalwork industries.
The       3D models are universally accessible through standard web browsers located       on the Museums' Sheffield website [Source 5].
The `Man of Steel' will be a       `made in Sheffield' 30m tall stainless steel landmark and visitor centre       for the Yorkshire and Sheffield region celebrating the community's       connections with the steel industry [Source 6 - 9].
In 2012 GMPR       technologies were used to scan a model of the sculpture to a high       resolution of 4 vertices per millimetre.
The scanned model has over 2       million faces.
It has been a critical tool in allowing architects to place       it within virtual models assisting visualisation of the sculpture's final       appearance and also in helping to obtain the required planning       permissions.
Mehdi Sculptures Ltd [Source 10] stated that: `This [3D         scanning of Man of Steel sculpture] has been handled with       considerable skill, resolving many issues along the way and achieving a       result that will have an immediate effect in many areas including design,       planning and engineering.'
