     Impact of the technology for research participants       The Kheti technology provided farmers living in remote villages with       relevant and accurate on-the-spot agricultural advice from a trusted       source (the advisor for the co-operative).
Farmers who used photographs       and audio to communicate the problem typically experienced a turnaround       time from query to response - of between 12 and 48 hours.
Prior to Kheti,       the agricultural advisor would have needed to visit each village involving       a half or whole day's journey over dirt roads.
In field trials conducted with the collaborating farmers' co-operative,       over 200 messages were exchanged in the 3 month trial period, with over       100 different farmers using the service.
Ninety eight messages were       translated into English and analysed.
Of these messages, 17 different       crops were discussed, with queries being mostly concerned with identifying       and eradicating crop pests, poor crop development, and crop disease       symptoms.
Major pest problems were identified and addressed promptly (e.g.
a Hock Moth attack on a farmer's Soya field), which may have prevented a       significant loss of annual income for farmers affected in that village       (Ref 5).
In 2009, the project received the Manthan award for best practice in       digital inclusion (Source 1).
Rizvi and members of the co-operative       travelled to New Dehli to collect the award and the project was widely       reported in the Indian print media, including the Times of India.
The       Manthan Award was launched in 2004 by the Digital Empowerment Foundation,       in partnership with the World Summit Award and the Department of IT, of       the Government of India (and other partners).
The annual award recognises       the very best in e-Content and digital practices for development.
Initially this was for the Indian sub-continent, but now covers the entire       South Asia and Pacific region.
Impact for software design organisations       Our collaborators in India, Safal Solutions, have revised their software       development processes to integrate the novel methods and techniques       generated by the Rural e-Services project.
They have applied these methods       to multiple IT design projects over the past 5 years, all reflecting our       research finding concerning institutional strengthening as a crucial       element of ICTD.
Safal's projects have focused on management information       systems (MIS) for institutions associated with both microfinance and       primary agricultural co-operatives (PACS) (Source 2).
Through the dissemination of our novel methods, we have developed a       relationship with a team at SAP Research (Karlsruhe, Germany) who are       conducting projects using mobile phones to connect agricultural supply       chains in West Africa.
Dearden used key findings from the Rural e-Services       study (Refs 3, 4, 5) to advise SAP Research on ways of combining agile       software development with participatory institutional development       strategies.
This resulted in the development by SAP Research of a       methodology called DRAMATICS (formerly, TIM), the associated methods and       applications for which are described (in Ref 6, Source 3).
At the core of       the DRAMATICS methodology is a clear definition of roles including       internal and external software developers and a locally based `change       manager' (equivalent to the `development project manager' role identified       in Ref 4).
The DRAMATICS methodology also extends the work of Rural       e-Services by defining a sequence of phases of project evaluation, each of       which demands different frequencies of software iteration and different       process models for managing software changes.
Impact for farmers and farming Co-operatives       In collaboration with the Centre for People's Forestry (CPF), Safal has       applied our new participatory methodologies to develop a management       information system, both for CPF and the Primary Agricultural Co-operative       Societies (PACs), that the centre supports.
The CPF and their partners are       providing valuable agricultural information, advice and business credit       lines to over 10,000 people in Andhra Pradesh, including 3000 PACS       members.
SAP Research has adopted and adapted our methods to design and deploy       novel software using mobile phones to support co-operatives of Cashew       farmers and Shea Nut collectors in Ghana and Burkina Faso (Ref 6).
The       resulting applications improve the traceability of produce in the supply       chain, enabling the co-operatives to qualify for Fair Trade premiums.
The       technologies are now being used to increase the incomes of over 8000       farmers in West Africa, with plans to extend the work to support 10,000       cocoa farmers in Ivory Coast for the 2013 harvest (Sources 3 and 4).
Impact on microfinance co-operatives       Safal Solutions has used the methodologies devised through Rural       e-Services to develop IT systems for microfinance in India (Source 2).
Microfinance involves groups of people on very low incomes (usually women)       forming joint savings and loan clubs within their villages and keeping       paper records.
Savings rates may be as little as 10 or 20p per week.
Although the amounts involved may not be sufficient to open a bank       account, good record keeping (including digitising records) allows       individuals and the group to build up a credit history and so access small       loans.
However, capturing the data from these village savings club is       challenging and labour intensive.
Safal's software and socio-technical       model helps microfinance NGOs to efficiently capture and manage this data,       enabling some of the poorest members of Indian society to access banking       services.
Safal's new software has been applied by: the Jeevika project in       Bihar state, which provides financial services to 700,000 women; TRIPTI in       Orissa state which aims to support 300,000 women; and Arohan, a       microfinance institution in West Bengal which serves 300,000 families.
Impact on students in developing countries       The Rural e-Services project was used to underpin an 18 month British       Council-funded Education Partnership with Africa between SHU and Makerere       University, Uganda.
As a result of the partnership, 50 students at       Makerere have been supported in developing innovative mobile applications       to address challenges and opportunities they identified, both nationally       and within their local communities.
The student projects included: an       automated reminder system for pregnant women reminding them of clinic       appointments and encouraging good pre- and post-natal care; an SMS query       routing system to enable a community of farmers to share knowledge with       each other; an SMS based sports betting application; collecting water       &amp; power meter readings using mobile phones; and an SMS based       `recommendation community' for restaurants and hotels in Uganda.
(Source       5).
