     The social impacts of the research were primarily related to how the       research prompted positive change within Wakefield prison and more widely       within the Prison Estate of England and Wales (Sources 1, 2, 3 and Ref 3).
The report for Grant 1 (Ref 3) pointed to areas where prison practices       were in need of improvement and the prison management was keen to address       these issues and work with the research team.
They collaborated with the       research team in a successful ESRC research application (Grant 2).
This       grant enabled issues highlighted during Grant 1 to be addressed through a       series of interactive workshops with staff and prisoners.
The local       impacts of these grants derive from highlighting the inadequacy of       categorising and responding to prisoners on the basis of only one strand       of identity (e.g.
ethnicity or faith; age or sexuality) (Source 3).
This       was most marked in the prisoner workshop where prisoners explored their       own intersecting identities and considered the implications of this for       how they would work with prisoners in the future.
The workshop helped the       prison move to a unitary/amalgamated system of prisoner reps.
The Governor states:     `The workshop enabled the reps to explore how [the amalgamated system         of prisoner reps] might be achieved and develop their understanding of         other areas of diversity.
Following the workshops a new training package         was developed to assist prisoner reps in this important work.'
(Source 3)     Linked to this was, initially, a local change in how the prison chose to       report `incidents' triggered by diversity-minority identities.
Prior to       the research the prison only officially recorded `racial incidents'.
Following recommendations arising from Grants 1 and 2 the reporting form       was redesigned to reflect all aspects of diversity and was known as the       `Diversity Incident Reporting Form' (DIRF).
At a national level, impacts have occurred with regard to policies,       procedures and practices (Source 1 and Source 3).
The Head of NOMS       Equalities Unit (HoEqu), a member of the initial project's advisory       committee, states that the on-going work associated with Grant 1 and the       resulting reports have influenced the Equalities Unit in shaping the new       national `Equalities Framework' (PSI 32/2011) (Source 1).
Research       findings have also underpinned NOMS' decision to commission good practice       guidance for prisoner equalities' representatives and to develop a       national training package in relation to diversity related issues (Source       1).
The diversity incident reporting form (DIRF) developed at Wakefield       was introduced into all prisons in England and Wales (Source 1).
This       change was implemented in January 2011 (subsequent visits to HMP Wakefield       have confirmed that implementation has taken place) (Source 1).
Additionally, research findings from Grants 1 and 2 highlight much       uncertainty in relation to transgender prisoners, with the issue of       searching prisoners being seen as particularly sensitive.
Following our research, the HoEq notes,     `A final example [of impact] is the request for guidance in relation         to the treatment, including searching, of transgender prisoners.
Revised         national policy on the searching of trans prisoners has been issued, and         a draft of a Prison Service Instruction on the care and management of         trans prisoners produced as part of the equalities policy framework.'
(Source 1).
Additionally the Lead National Trainer in relation to transgender issues       has acknowledged the impact of the workshops (Source 2).
Furthermore, HoEq       (Source 1) notes that the research helped him to re-think how his Unit       supports individual prisons in relation to diversity related issues.
In       particular, Ref 3 highlights how prisoners distrust official means of       resolving problems (e.g.
the complaints system and the racial incident       reporting system) and prefer to work with their `reps' to resolve issues       informally.
Prison staff also pointed to the very positive role that       prisoner `reps' had in informally resolving issues.
In the light of this HoEq notes how the research developed:     `our growing sense of the importance of face-to-face interactions         between staff and prisoners in ensuring fairness in prisons.
This ...         contributed to our decision to develop a project to introduce structured         communications techniques in the prison setting, which we are piloting         in three prisons ...'(Source 1)     Finally, in relation to research practice in prisons, research findings       arising from Grant 1 confirmed that AI was suitable for use in High       Security settings.
HoEq notes:     `Seeing that the researchers were able to take the Wakefield prisoners         through the discovery, dreaming, designing and destiny phases to         generate some positive feedback about the prison and to identify some         practical suggestions as to how things could be made better for them has         provided helpful impetus to us to find other ways of doing prisoner         consultation.'
(Source 1)     In 2011 Prof Cowburn (and his Colleague Dr Lavis) were short-listed for       the Howard League Research Medal for their ESRC-funded research.
The       Howard League for Penal Reform celebrates the work of academics and       researchers whose work offers genuine new insights into the penal system.
The award of its Research Medal acknowledges high quality research that       has succeeded, or can demonstrate that it has the potential, to have an       impact on non- academic audiences (Source 4).
The present projects mark a successful beginning to what is a longer term       endeavour.
Grant 1 was a pilot and Grant 2 was a KE project; taken       together they have had significant applied impact within NOMS,       particularly within the secure prison estate.
In brief the impact can be       described as humanitarian.
The findings of Grant 1 and the learning       processes embodied in Grant 2 have enabled penal practices with diversity       minority prisoners to become both more aware and more respectful and thus       more effective.
However, these projects are only a beginning.
The ESRC,       taking into account the impacts of the projects, has now funded a larger       three years study in three prisons (Grant 3), it is anticipated that this       work will build on the impacts of the two projects reported here.
