     The richness and detail of VLEG data enables its users (government       policymakers, non-governmental organisations including healthcare       providers and charities, researchers and educators, inter alia) in       countries worldwide to obtain location-relevant information, rather than       relying upon data from neighbouring regions, or data that has been       amalgamated across regions.
This provides a more accurate view of the       specific issues faced by each country which, due to differing risk       factors, may differ markedly from their neighbours.
For example, users can       assess the impact of gender, age, ethnicity and other predictive variables       in their region to establish specific eye care priorities.
In addition,       this has enabled the data to be used in third-sector reports that estimate       the global economic cost of unmet eye-health issues, impacting on policy       of global aid agencies.
Where data were found to be sparse (e.g.
the       Caribbean), this has stimulated governments to commission new,       country-based population studies.
Finally, the data has also formed the       basis of training events with key policymakers and healthcare       professionals, impacting on their professional practice.
The initial tranche of VLEG data and analyses (together with other GBD       data) were released recently in the first ever dedicated special issue of       The Lancet (Dec 2012) which was launched by the UK Department of       Health [8-10 section 3].
This was followed by outputs which specifically       detail the global prevalence of visual impairment published in       Ophthalmology [5 section 3] and Lancet Public Health [6 section 3].
The       summary VLEG data were made available in 2012 through a database held by       the WHO, replacing far less-detailed and accessible paper-based statistics       [1].
The database, which is available on request to users, enables ready       access to information which can guide policy decisions and support       epidemiological research.
A. Impacts on the Economy and International Development     VLEG findings were used in the global analyses of eye-health economics       carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers's economic reports `Price of         Sight' and `Investing in Vision' (Feb 2013) [2].
This       economic report calculates the costs and benefits of achieving the IAPB's       VISION 2020 goal of eliminating avoidable blindness by the year 2020.
It       highlights the importance of eye-health for economic prosperity.
Key       findings include: "In developing countries, an additional investment of         only US$2.20 per capita per year for 10 years is required to eliminate         avoidable blindness and visual impairment" and "In developing         countries, the economic benefits of eliminating avoidable blindness and         visual impairment outweigh the costs by a factor of 4 to 1".
The       report identifies economic incentives for other governments and       third-sector organisations to invest in eye-health programmes, improving       public health and economic productivity, as seen, for example, in the       draft Eye Health Strategy by Vision2020 Australia for 2014 to 2019 [3]       (May 2013).
The World Bank has adopted the GBD (including the VLEG) data to inform       funding strategies and priorities for developing countries via its       International Development Association, whose core mission is to reduce       global poverty.
In a Lancet editorial (Dec 2012), the President of       the World Bank, states that the World Bank "continues to make extensive         use of this signal contribution to global health", and that the data       will "set the terms of health policy, planning, and funding discussions         for years to come" [4].
The WEF have used VLEG data in the design of their Human Capital         Initiative, to demonstrate the detrimental effect of visual       impairment on a nation's economic potential and productivity [5].
WEF has       selected "eyesight quality" as a key component to ascertain how population       demographics change over time, and to ascertain how blindness degrades       economic potential.
Drawing directly upon the GBD VLEG data, the Global Indicators for       Blindness Prevention (GIBP) project has produced a framework for assessing       the progress of the various global initiatives that aim to eliminate       avoidable blindness by identifying areas or countries that urgently       require resources (2012).
Sponsored by The Fred Hollows Foundation, the       project began at the Centre for Eye Research Australia (CERA) and uses       various indicators (including causes of vision loss and       availability/affordability of eye-care services) as important indicators.
Finally, the VISION2020 (Right to Sight) initiative, a joint programme of       the WHO and the IAPB, released an IAPB Briefing Paper in 2012 [6],       referring directly to VERU at Anglia Ruskin University and a key       publication by Bourne ([5] section 3 above).
The avowed purpose of       IAPB Briefing Papers is to inform IAPB members and others about important       and emerging issues affecting the elimination of avoidable blindness and       the development of eye health systems.
B. Impacts on Public Policy and Services, Health and Welfare     Policy decisions by government health departments have been informed by       our research.
In addition to the Australian example mentioned above, the       geographically-linked VLEG data highlighted the paucity of       population-based data on visual impairment and blindness for the       Caribbean.
This moved the Health Minister of Trinidad &amp; Tobago, the       Honourable Dr Fuad Khan, to pledge &#163;350,000 to collect detailed population       eye-health statistics to address this unmet need (2012).
At the opening       ceremony of the 2012 Congress of the Ophthalmological Society of the West       Indies, Dr Khan identified "an urgent need to understand the prevalence         of blindness and visual impairment in Trinidad and Tobago, in order to         provide an evidence base on which to structure delivery of resources"       [7].
The resulting National Eye Survey of Trinidad &amp;Tobago (NESTT),       which commenced in March 2013, is a joint partnership between Anglia       Ruskin University, University of Oxford, and the University of the West       Indies.
Policy debates on how to respond effectively to GBD findings have also       taken place in many countries, including the UK, where GBD results were       launched by the Department of Health at a special symposium in December       2012, and the USA, where international development funding reviews rely       upon GBD statistics [8] (Feb 2012).
Public Health England refers to the       VLEG findings as having "great national and international impact" [9].
VLEG research formed the basis of a clinical education and awareness       programme in Hyderabad, India, at the IAPB 9th General Assembly (September       2012).
The Congress, held to discuss blindness loss-prevention strategy,       resulted in increased awareness of the global prevalence of visual       impairment among NGOs and opinion leaders within ophthalmology.
This led       directly to the development of an action plan by the WHO for the       prevention of avoidable blindness and visual impairment for 2014-2019,       which was endorsed by the 66th World Health Assembly [10] (May 2013).
The       VLEG data were also disseminated to global healthcare education providers       at the Congress, with a view to improving training and education for       health care practice.
