     Home's DfID research on land titling and poverty reduction (published as       Demystifying the Mystery of Capital in 2004) has continued to       involve him in a range of impact activity in the current REF period.
He       contributed to a UN-Habitat expert group meeting in Geneva (2009),       attended by about twenty representatives of international disaster relief       agencies, which led to the development of post-disaster guidance for aid       and relief agencies (2010).
Home acted as a consultant in Pakistan in 2007       on land law issues following the 2005 earthquake.
The impact of this       consultancy is reflected in his report, Post-Disaster Land Issues Case         Study: Pakistan Earthquake of October 2005 (joint with Nilofer       Afridi Qazi, 2008), which was also subsequently included in publications       of UN-Habitat and the Global Land Tools Network (GLTN): Guide to         Post-Conflict Land Issues (2009) and Land and Natural Disasters:         Guidance for Practitioners (joint UN-Habitat, GLTN, FAO) (2010).
Home's research on land readjustment, land titling in the Middle East,       and joint work with PhD student Haitam Suleiman resulted in an invitation       to present a paper on Islamic land law to an international professional       conference in Bergen (2008), organized by the International Federation of       Surveyors (FIG) and the UN Economic Commission for Europe, with 200       delegates.
The conference theme was the legal empowerment of the poor,       following the international commission report on the same subject       sponsored by the Norwegian Foreign Ministry.
Two subsequent consultancies       in Kenya (2009 and 2010) concerned land and planning implications of the       new constitution and land code, influencing subsequent Pan-African       Parliament initiatives on land grabbing in Africa.
His research on development land assembly and land ownership in the UK       led to an invitation by the Government Chief Scientific Officer to       contribute a specialist scientific report on UK land ownership for the       Foresight Land Use Futures Project (2008-2010).
The final project report       was launched at an event held in the Royal Academy (London) in 2010, and       attended by some two hundred professionals, NGO representatives and       academics.
His contribution (ref.4 above) was cited in the Building and       Social Housing Foundation study, More Homes and Better Places:         Solutions to address the scale of housing need (2011).
This research       was cited in the books of Kevin Cahill, Who Owns Britain?
and Who         Owns the World?
Further, it has developed into international impact.
For instance, Home was invited in 2009 by the World Bank to participate in       a major project on the rule of law in Africa, (Grant TF 090558: Enhancing       Access to Legal Information, intended to strengthen public awareness and       rule of law materials) co-ordinated by the Institute of Human Rights in       Pretoria (South Africa).
He assembled and edited two books of       contributions on African land law, with local case studies, as part of a       book series, copies of which were distributed widely to Universities and       land professionals and policy-makers in Africa.
Opportunities for African       land law specialists to meet and discuss are few, so the author workshops       held in Kenya and London in 2010, which Home organized, provided such an       opportunity.
The book series was launched in Pretoria in March 2012, an       event attended by about twenty representatives of government and       non-governmental organizations, including Chief Executive Officers of       banks involved in funding land and housing development, and government       officials concerned with land law reform and constitutional guarantees of       land rights.
Home was subsequently invited to present a paper at a       symposium in 2013 sponsored by the Thabo Mbeki Foundation, and is       currently an invited Scientific Committee member for a continuing project       on `Land Grabbing in Africa' sponsored by the Pan-African Parliament and       African Union.
