     Strand 1       The research work discussed above provided the 10 stage framework of the       ASK online tool.
ASK       is a web-based tool designed to support first year undergraduates tackling       their first assignment.
It       was launched in October 2006 as a contribution to Staffordshire       University's Widening Participation       agenda and in support of the University's Information Literacy Statement       of Good Practice.
It now       underpins the University's aim of creating graduates who are       technologically, digitally and       information literate.This resource has been adopted either fully (i.e.
the       software is maintained       onsite) or partly (software accessed by a link-through to Staffordshire       University) by ten universities       worldwide (Staffordshire plus Kent, York St John, Swansea, Sydney       University of Technology,       Manchester, Aston, Cumbria, Brighton, Minnesota), and several colleges in       the Staffordshire       University network.
It is thus in regular use by tens of thousands of       students in the UK, Australia       and in the United States.
In addition, there are external hits from       France, Greece, Italy, New       Zealand, Singapore, UAE and Zambia.
Strand 2       The research work has been used by the British Library of Development       Studies (BLDS) (part of       the Institute for Development Studies (IDS)) to underpin the practical and       theoretical framework of       an information literacy programme for partners in Africa.
The BLDS use the       above research as an       underpinning teaching `bible' with which to construct teaching and       learning opportunities in       information literacy.
Drawing heavily from not only the evidence but the       theoretical concepts and       practical examples the IDS have constructed a number of highly successful       courses which have       been delivered in developing countries in Africa.
The target audiences are       information       intermediaries, including librarians, researchers, and development NGOs.
The programme       includes the co-development of a scalable, enquiry-based information       literacy programme; a       monitoring and evaluation toolkit to measure the impact of information       capability interventions; and       regional workshops to share best practice approaches to stimulating demand       for research       knowledge.
BLDS have collaborated with the International Network for the       Availability of Scientific       Publications (INASP) and the Information Training and Outreach Centre for       Africa (ITOCA) to co-develop       courses in 2010.
Four courses were developed:     Pedagogy for Trainers of Policy Makers: This course is designed to       enhance the training skills       of individuals who provide training in how to access and use research       information, to       policy makers and influencers.
The course aims to help participants       develop a highly       participatory, learner-centred training style.
It covers aspects of       learning theory (for       example constructivism and behaviourism) as well as more practical aspects       of organising       training (for example, room layout and designing PowerPoint slides).
Training the Trainers Information Literacy Skills: Hosted in       Nigeria, the emphasis of this course       was to develop facilitation skills in training, and to focus on generic       skills rather than the       more specific product led searching skills.
How to improve search skills: This course was run in Zimbabwe with       researchers and librarians       from 11 universities based in Southern Africa, in partnership with INASP.
The purpose of       the course was to help participants in Southern Africa and similar       environments share       information about refining their search skills and up scaling their       information literacy       programmes to the institutional level.
Pedagogical Approaches to teaching and learning course: This       course was aimed at       information literacy trainers, and was piloted with participants from 7       African countries.
This course focused on developing the learner-centred training skills of       senior academics       and librarians who, as designated ITOCA National Liaison Coordinators, ran       information       literacy courses using more traditional teaching methodologies.
The project achieved 4 key impacts:            Creation of four training courses tailored to specific audiences       Transformed stakeholders' behaviours regarding teaching and training       A tool for measuring impact of training       Best practice approaches in stimulating demand for research knowledge
