     Gowar's work has made a significant impact on children's early       experiences of reading and writing.
His work is widely read in primary       schools, and his popular retellings of traditional stories have introduced       new generations of readers and potential storytellers and writers to the       rich heritage of British folk tales.
His work has been broadcast on BBC 2       schools television (2012).
The Story Web has helped preserve, conserve and       present the cultural heritage of communities both inside and outside the       UK, including minority communities, thus enhancing understanding of       different cultures and traditions.
Digital technology offers powerful       tools to preserve cultures, languages and dialects which are under threat.
It offers new media through which stories can be told and shared.
What the       Story Web offers to children is a modern, digital analogue to traditional       oral storytelling through which young people can not only re-tell and       share traditional and contemporary stories but also take ownership of       digital technology instead of being merely passive users of pre-packaged       content.
As well as preserving heritage the Story Web contributes to innovation       through the design of new products, and has informed practice by       educational practitioners.
The most significant recent development is in       adjusting the design of the site and preparing support materials to reach       out to children with special needs.
A series of digital picture books has       been prepared for publication, specifically written and illustrated for       older teenagers, and these have been very warmly welcomed in piloting by a       group of language and literacy coordinators from Suffolk Special Schools.
The project has also helped generate new ways of thinking that influence       creative practice, as well as enhance children's personal development.
Dr       Gowar has worked with pupils and students with special needs, drawing on       his research to design creative workshops to help them express themselves       both through writing and music-making.
This has also led to part-time and       voluntary work with Squeaky Gate, a Cambridge-based creative arts       charity.
Other storytelling projects linked to the Story Web project since 2008       have had a beneficial impact on a range of stakeholders: children,       educationalists, representatives from the heritage industry.
These have       helped generate new approaches to creative practice, create new forms of       artistic, literary and spiritual expression, and give fresh stimulus to       the local community, contributing to its profile as a destination for       tourists.
2011:     - Making the past present, panel discussion on the relevance of       world classics, epics and oral traditions to schools, museums and cultural       organizations.
- Keywords for Children's Literature, talk by Prof. Lissa Paul,       Brock University, Toronto, and Prof. Philip Nel, State University of       Kansas.
- Imagining The Past, Creative workshops for children and adults       using items from the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology as starting       points for creative writing and illustration, jointly led with Chris       Draper, Cambridge School of Art.
2012:             Faith, Dreams and Signs, panel discussion on the connections         between dreams and the foundations of religious faith.
Dispatches from the Literacy Wars, panel discussion on past         and present methods for teaching reading and writing and for assessing         competences in literacy, jointly chaired with Prof. Lissa Paul, Brock         University, Toronto.
Creating Dreamtimes, Creative workshops for children and         adults using items from the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology as         well as the writings of Ted Hughes as starting points for creative         writing and illustration.
Gowar has also been very heavily involved in music education, both in       creative workshops in schools and as a librettist and lyricist.
Since       2008, he has taken part in the following projects:     (i) Digital film-making project jointly led with stage-designer and       mask-maker Gwen Taylor, and cellist Sam Glazer, re-telling the myth of       Theseus and the Minotaur (2008-9).
(ii) Joint leader, with composer Simon Gunton, of a creative project with       students from Cambridge School of Art to produce original visual work and       musical compositions based on the paintings and songs of Syd Barrett, as       part of The City Wakes, a ten-day celebration of the life and work       of Syd Barrett of Pink Floyd (2008)     (iii) Storytelling and song and drawing workshops based on an exhibition       of Sara Fanelli's illustrations for Pinocchio for more than 120       children from twelve Cambridgeshire primary schools (2008).
In 2013 Gowar organised and participated in a series of well attended and       received talks and `in conversation' sessions given by Jack Zipes,       Visiting Leverhulme Professor, all of which were open to the general       public.
Some of these events were heavily oversubscribed requiring a       larger auditorium to be booked.
