 Stott's novels are both instantiations of research and conduits for impact.
Thus as well as enhancing the personal development of readers, through expanding and enriching their imagination, they also help develop public understanding of science.
Ghostwalk was first published in 2007 (paperback 2008), and quickly generated impact.
For example in 2008 Stott was interviewed for Radio Wisconsin about the use of physics in the novel, and it was shortlisted for Cambridgeshire's Book of the Decade competition in 2010.
It has sold over 24,000 copies, and was reviewed positively in the Guardian, The Times, Daily Telegraph and Independent, as well as in many other newspapers, magazines and internet sites.
It has been translated into 12 different languages and was shortlisted for the Jelf First Novel prize.
It attracted over 100 reviews on Amazon.com.
With its detailed representation of seventeenth-century and contemporary scientific cultures, it has brought the history and philosophy of science to new audiences.
The Coral Thief, like Ghostwalk, is an example of research as creative practice.
It is also a vector through which the earlier research Stott undertook at Anglia Ruskin continues to have impact.
As with Ghostwalk, this impact manifests itself as the cultural and intellectual enrichment of those who have read or listened to the novel, or to Stott's discussion of the research and thought which informed its composition.
Ghostwalk is set in the Cambridge of Sir Isaac Newton while The Coral Thief is set in post-revolutionary France and links the political and religious upheavals of that era to the scientific discoveries of Cuvier and Lamarck.
Thus, while introducing readers to landmarks in pre-Darwinian scientific thought, the novels encourage both those with a scientific background and general readers to explore the wider implications of scientific research in order to better understand the complex connections between the discursive practices of science, politics and religion.
This both contributes to public understanding of a significant issue facing society and creates cultural capital which improves the quality of people's lives.
These distinctive qualities of Stott's research reflect our UoA's wider engagement with scientific debates, as instanced in the creative practice of Dietz, the research and creative practice of Price, and in many colleagues' expertise in science fiction, the subject of another case study.
Stott was interviewed about The Coral Thief on Woman's Hour by Jane Garvey on 24 December 2009.
In that year Woman's Hour attracted record numbers of listeners, reaching an audience of 3 million for the first time in its history.
Subsequently The Coral Thief was read by Jane Allard on Radio 4's Book at Bedtime (11-22 January 2010).
Book at Bedtime typically attracts 600,000 listeners per night, or 1.5 million over the course of a week.
Ghostwalk and The Coral Thief were both released as audiobooks, in 2007 and 2009 respectively.
In addition, nearly 5,000 copies of the novel have been sold.
The Coral Thief was first published in hardback and subsequently reissued in paperback (2010).It has had a worldwide market, and was reviewed in the Guardian, The Times, Daily Telegraph and Independent, in addition to numerous other papers, magazines and internet sites including: London Metro, Sugar, Big Issue in the North, Sunday Business Post, Publishers' Weekly, Booklist, Kirkus Reviews, Portsmouth Herald, Washington Post, The Bookseller UK, The Scotsman, Choice Magazine, Daily Mail, Financial Times, Waterstone's Books Quarterly, Woman Magazine, New Scientist, Times Literary Supplement, Dallas Morning News, and Science magazine.
Stott's books have also been reviewed worldwide in scientific journals such as Chemical Heritage and New Scientist as well as in mainstream and literary publications.
This range suggests the impact she has had on both popular and academic awareness of the relationship between literature and science, contributing to scientists' appreciation of the public and historical understanding of their fields.
Her works have contributed significantly to contemporary debates about the place of science in society.
Stott's novels conform most clearly to the second example given in the indicative range of impact categories offered in the Panel Criteria and Working Methods.
As well received and widely reviewed examples of innovative literary fiction they have created cultural capital, and they also function as interpretations of cultural capital, communicating, and inviting reflection on, research into the history and philosophy of science.
