     This research has had impact on the personal development of individuals       and groups; this has       been enhanced through members of the public being given the chance to       explore and reflect on       moral and religious questions arising from science fiction.
Public       lectures are one vehicle for this       kind of impact.
Brown gave a public lecture based on her article on       Shakespeare's magic to       approximately 70 people (2008).
Wymer gave a public lecture exploring the       depiction of religion in       science fiction which attracted approximately 300 people (2011).
This led       to further invitations to       address non-academic audiences, including the Chelmsford Theological       Society (2012) and the       Suffolk Theological Forum (2013).
The relationship between science fiction       and religion was also       the focus of a panel discussion in which McCormack participated at the       British Science Festival in       Bradford (2011).
She regularly takes part in such events, bringing both       her creative and critical       work to a wider audience, and participating in the creative and       interactive culture of fandom.
Gy&#246;rgy Sz&#246;nyi, was a Leverhulme Visiting Professor at Anglia Ruskin in       2009 and participated,       with Brown and Wymer, in a series of events open to the general public       which explored the place       of science and the occult in literature, and the way in which the       relationship between these two       seemingly contradictory forces has been constructed and contested.
Colleagues participated in panels on science fiction as part of the 2008       and 2012 Cambridge       Festival of Ideas.
In the first event Brown and Wymer joined Chris       Beckett, winner of the 2013       Arthur C. Clarke award, to share their research into science fiction with       members of the general       public.
At the 2012 event Brown, Mendlesohn and McCormack gave       presentations.
Brown's talk       was derived from her published chapter `The Parabola Paradox', looking at       the ways in which       human/insect interfaces can help us analyse society's changing responses       to non-human and       posthuman identities.
McCormack discussed the changing role of Doctor       Who's assistants and       Mendlesohn spoke about dreams of the future in children's books.
This       event attracted       approximately 40 participants and received excellent feedback, with all       participants rating the event       either good or very good.
Baxter has given two public lectures based on       her work at the University       of Cagliari (2009) and Anglia Ruskin University (2012).
Her first       interview with Ballard, `Reading the       Signs' was reprinted as `Age of Unreason' by the Guardian online (2004),       and also subsequently       appeared in Extreme Metaphors: Interviews with J.G.
Ballard 1967-2008       (2012).
Many have benefited from the creation of cultural capital aimed at       enriching people's lives and       imaginations by members of our UOA.
As well as sharing her research on Doctor         Who at the 2012       Festival of Ideas event, McCormack was invited to discuss Doctor Who       on the Today programme       (23.1.13) with novelist Eoin Colfer.
This programme attracts an average       weekly audience of nearly       7 million listeners.
McCormack also reaches a large audience as a creative       practitioner.
Through       the creation of cultural capital McCormack contributes to economic       prosperity by producing       commercially successful creative works.
She wrote a script for the Doctor       Who spin-off Gallifrey       (series 5), based on the further adventures of two of Doctor Who's       companions, and starring Lalla       Ward and Louise Jameson, original actors from Doctor Who.
This       audio-book has sold over 800       copies.
Her book The Way Through the Woods has sold over 25,000       copies, and Brinkmanship       (set in the Star Trek universe) over 11,000 copies.
Her fiction engages       with a range of social and       political issues, thus enhancing public understanding of human rights and       ethical dilemmas.
Her       book, The Crimson Shadow, reached number 17 in the New York Times       Bestseller list in October       2013, making it a strong potential source of future impact.
Colleagues create and raise awareness of cultural capital through social       media, thus enhancing       enjoyment of culture and personal development for a wider international       audience.
Both Brown       (2009) and McCormack (2012) have written about their favourite fantasy       novels for the award       winning `normblog'.
Brown has also written numerous science fiction       reviews for other blogs and for       Amazon, where she is a member of `Amazon Vine', an invitation-only scheme       subsidised by the       publishing industry which offers free books to high ranking reviewers,       reflecting the increasing       recognition that online reviews have considerable commercial influence.
McCormack and       Mendlesohn also communicate their research into science fiction and       fantasy via personal blogs.
Our research has also had an impact in enhancing public understanding of       science.
Rowland       Wymer's co-authored article on Dee was an acknowledged influence on a BBC       Radio 4       programme on Dee presented by Professor Jonathan Sawday in January 2013.
Sawday drew on       details of the article in this broadcast and consulted Wymer for further       information and advice       (email dated 8/11/12).
