 Since 2008, findings from this project have helped each of its stakeholders achieve key commercial objectives and provided participants with the tools to develop sustainable best practice in their use of customer insights.
Principal outcomes are: 4.1 Growth for farmers and small food and drink producers The impact of this research on the 400 participating farmers and small food producers (5.6) is wide and varied.
By necessity, this case study will focus on selected aspects and specific examples.
Firstly, there are a number of ways in which consumer insight can be used to support marketing decision-making or business planning.
The results of our supplier survey (5.1) indicate that study participants experienced a range of benefits.
For example:  Sixty one per cent of respondents used consumer insight reports for competitor analysis.
Thirty one per cent used reports to retain or increase their supermarket business.
Thirty per cent of respondents used reports for new product development.
Twenty four per cent of respondents used reports in support of promotional planning.
In summary, 52% of respondents stated that the consumer insight reports were `extremely useful', while a further 37% found them `quite useful'.
Second, individual business case studies, based on consumer insight outcomes, provide more detailed evidence of benefits specific to each farmer or food producer (5.2):   Donnelly Horticulture, a flower and salad grower from Northern Ireland, made major changes to its production plans, having identified the potential of Oriental Lilies.
This resulted in incremental sales of 400,000 lilies per year from 2011 to 2012.
Bath Ales, a microbrewery looking to expand into the retail sector, discovered a growing demand for lighter, paler beers and an unexpected seasonal peak in sales around Easter.
As a result, they launched Golden Hare into the retail market and timed the launch to capitalise on the Easter peak in sales.
The launch generated sales growth of 10% for the brand and a 20% increase in customer penetration during 2011.
In 2011, Burts Chips used a report on the premium crisps market to secure a listing for their branded crisps in 60 Tesco stores and persuaded the Tesco buying team to re-think its approach to the premium crisp category.
This resulted in a re-positioning of the Burts brand within the Tesco Finest range and the development of collaborative relationships with other Tesco suppliers, including Nando's.
Morelli's is a heritage ice cream brand that has diversified into the wholesale market.
Although listed by Tesco in 2009, Morelli's ice cream was struggling to sell.
The team discovered that customers were put off by poor quality packaging and were concerned about the authenticity of the product stocked by Tesco.
A 2010 re-launch, with new packaging and tub sizes, led to a 7% increase in Morelli's sales in Tesco during 2011.
Natural Balance Foods is the company behind the `Nakd' range of healthy snacks.
Participating in this project taught the owners that multipacks offered them the most potential for growth.
The Nakd Oaties multipack launch trebled sales of Nakd bars in the top three UK supermarkets between 2008 and 2009.
Provenance Salads produced a range of dressed salads using organic vegetables, after receiving an insight report on the importance of convenience to purchasers of luxury coleslaw.
Since launching in Tesco, the company has used further insight data to replace some original products with new varieties that appeal more strongly to its affluent target market.
Between 2010 and 2011, sales increased by 130%.
Cornish Country Larder is an artisan cheese maker and used a consumer insight report to secure additional distribution of its Tesco brand goats' cheese.
Between 2010 and 2011, sales grew more than 42%, against an overall decline in this sector.
4.2 Support for Tesco's relationship with local suppliers During 2011, the research team helped the Tesco `Local' buying team run a series of five regional workshops for over 300 local suppliers, led by Fearne and colleagues (5.3).
The workshops addressed issues such as promotions, packaging, quality control and new product development, in order to support mutually beneficial relationships with smaller, local suppliers.
Subsequently, Fearne received the following letter from one of Tesco's regional marketing managers (5.4): "Kent Business School's long-term relationship with dunnhumby continues to be a great benefit to small businesses that are prevented from accessing and making use of data like this on a regular basis.
...We will continue to recommend your service to small businesses in the future &#8212; not only is it a great resource for suppliers it is also very helpful for our team &#8212; not least because we benefit immensely from having better informed suppliers."
4.3 Helping industry associations and regional development agencies support stakeholders The following eight agencies engaged with this research by sponsoring one or more PhD studentships between 2006 and 2013, investing a total of &#163;845,000 in the study.
These include the Agriculture &amp; Horticulture Development Board, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, (Northern Ireland), South East England Development Agency, Scottish Executive Environment and Rural Affairs Department, Home Grown Cereals Authority, Northwest Food Alliance, Milk Development Council and Meat and the Livestock Commission.
The primary objective of these organisations was to provide commercial benefit for the farmers and small food and drink producers who fall within their remit.
However, additional benefits for this group of stakeholders include outcomes such as an increased understanding within their own organisations of consumer purchasing behaviour.
As the Tree Fruit Research Manager of the Horticultural Development Council commented (see corroborating contact No.
2): "The HDC has struggled for many years to persuade its members to invest in consumer research, so focussed have they been on grappling with the technical aspects of fruit and vegetable production.
This pump-priming initiative not only benefitted many of our sector groups directly, by helping them to align their production and promotional plans with the market, it also served to highlight the importance of working collaboratively with other links in the chain, to turn insight into action, saving money and adding value where it matters most, at the point of purchase" The DEFRA-funded Agricultural Development Scheme Grant provided additional support to these stakeholders from 2008 to 2010 and focussed on the development of marketing skills and capabilities amongst farmers and small food producers.
A total of 37 workshops and seminars were delivered across the country, involving over 1500 farmers and small producers (5.7).
