     The research has had impact in two ways: first, by influencing key       figures in the debate about policies concerning homosexuality and race in       professional sport.
Second, by receiving extensive coverage nationally and       internationally in the media and likewise informing important documentary       work.
Copies of the research work were sent to policy-making bodies such as the       Government Equalities Office, and football governing bodies.
Evidence of       the impact it had is (1) An official representative of the Government       Equalities Office, wrote: "The study was one of the first of its kind and       explored several issues, including tackling many of the myths on the views       of fans and football culture.
[...] Your study on gay footballers made a       timely impact on the wider field of LGBT issues, as well as on the       emerging debate in sport."
Reference was also made in this testimonial to       the racism study.
(2) The research on racism and football management was       cited in their report by The House of Commons Committee on Racism in       Football - Culture, Media and Sport Committee.
The media coverage has been extensive and international, reaching       millions of readers.
Importantly, some of the coverage has been in the       sport pages of major media outlets (e.g.
The New York Times, San         Francisco Chronicle), while other coverage has been in other       non-sport sections (e.g.
in the Observer), showing the breadth of       the importance attached to these results.
Moreover, the research had       considerable impact directly on the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual       communities, as evidenced by a lead review article in 2012 in       lgbthistorymonth.org.uk.
In addition, the work has been influential on an important BBC       documentary.
Its producer wrote "This pioneering research into an       otherwise under researched issue proved integral to the BBC's important       documentary "Britain's gay footballers".
Equally helpful was Ellis's       [Ellis Cashmore's] willingness to discuss and explain his findings in       extensive conversations on the phone.
The production, which received much       positive publicity and attention in the wider media, owes his work a       considerable debt of gratitude."
Professor Cashmore and Dr. Cleland have       appeared in a number of television and radio documentaries, including on       BBC5Live and BBC Radio Manchester.
The producer of two of these programmes       writes: "I have interviewed Ellis Cashmore as a main contributor to the       debate on the lack of representation of black managers and coaches within       football.
His ability to inform the debate from an academic standpoint       helped to increase the understanding and analysis of black representation       at management levels within football.
I know that this was well received       by my sporting colleagues and also audiences as the statistics and       research analysis were presented in a way that was clear to the listener."
