     The project had an impact on a sample of senior PR practitioners in       Scotland in relation to enabling critically-reflexive understanding of the       practice and its underpinning concepts, the nature of their expertise,       their self-understanding as a creative service provider in contemporary       society and the community of practice within which they are situated.
The       impacts have a range of implications for individuals, their organizations       and professional bodies.
The project co-constructed new understanding and practices that effected       changes in self- understanding beneficial to individuals and the practice       community.
It facilitated emergent meanings and discourses that began to       generate new ways of thinking about their work.
These changes were       reported instantaneously by some practitioners in response to the initial       semi- structured qualitative interviews/focus groups and captured       subsequently in email correspondence and follow-up interventions.
Impacts       included reflexive understandings of occupational roles and feedback       received emphasised that practitioners found interviews and focus groups       to be `therapeutic', `thoroughly stimulating', and `what the professional       bodies should be doing'.
It appeared that the research process allowed       practitioners to share frustrations, the peaks and troughs of their       emotional labour (Yeomans, 2007) and to raise questions about the nature       of professional roles and professional bodies.
Project design took place in January 2013 with preparatory informal       discussions and interviews in February, March and April.
A researcher       began work in June and interventions and impacts gathered and assessed       throughout the project on an iterative basis (up to five face-to-face       meetings with each volunteer over the course of the project).
Dissemination to the practitioner community took place from November       onwards (including Thought Leadership article in International PR       Association Journal; presentations to professional bodies).
A working       paper that reviewed the pilot study and impacts was submitted to Synthesis       (the working paper series for the Media, Communications and Performing       Arts Division), uploaded in December 2013 and made available through the       institutional e-repository.
Strategies and processes to enable impact       The project investigated practitioner understandings of knowledge in       practice specifically in relation to processes of evaluation and the       conceptualization of value.
Biographical data provided insights into       career trajectories and progression, personal development opportunities       and promotion and conceptualizations of senior status within the       occupation.
Understanding the attitudes, behaviours and specific practices       of PR practitioners in relation to research-based practice, including the       evaluation of PR impacts, was important.
The project involved liaison with       professional bodies, such as the Chartered Institute of PR (CIPR) and the       PR Consultants' Association (PRCA) in Scotland and the use of CIPR       databases within Scotland.
CIPR publicised the study and helped to recruit       participants, incentivising this by offering CPD points for participation       in all stages.
The investigation sought to delineate how practitioners understand the       connection between certain types of knowledge and expertise in relation to       their linguistic and symbolic work and its societal impacts.
The ways in       which practitioners translate knowledge capital into discourse and       influence was explored and the implications of this for professional       standing and society more widely was taken into consideration.
Relationships among practitioners, specifically the nature of the       community of practice and ideas about professionalism,       professionalisation, the role of professional bodies and the notion of       professional practice, were examined.
Taking into consideration responses       from initial informal conversations and more formal interviews and focus       groups, the project made further critical interventions in the population       with a small study sample, offering free choices about the form of       intervention.
These included personal journals, prescribed reading around       identified issues, analytical exercises, and in all cases, reflective       discussion.
The overwhelming preference was for one-to-one follow-up       tailored to needs identified by practitioners but contextualised       conceptually by the research team to include key areas such as evaluation,       creativity, and reflexive and critical thinking.
This case contributed self-understanding and insights that could       influence future practice among creative service providers       (PR/communications practitioners), professional bodies and clients.
In       addition to reported individual interventions and the proactive interest       of professional organisations it is expected that there will be       longer-term impact as researchers and participants collaborate within       professional networks to facilitate critical analysis and occupational       change.
The evidence is self-reported from individual practitioners at a personal       level in terms of insights and personal impressions and from professional       bodies in terms of requests for further involvement in the context of       providing support and discursive contexts for senior practitioners.
Although the research team questioned the PR concept of `senior       practitioner' it became clear in the course of the project that this       cohort lacked concepts and language to articulate their expertise and that       the published literature had so far failed to capture this or to engage       practitioners themselves in more conceptual reflection and deeper level       engagements/learning.
Typically research into practice has focused on       description of roles or techniques or prescriptive recommendations.
This       study sought to engage practice by creating an environment for reflexive       development and critique.
