     The project aimed to:     1) produce ideas and solutions for how young people can be assisted and       encouraged in learning together, and from one another, about dealing with       alcohol;     2) deliver outcomes at the level of personal development and citizenship       skills for participants;     3) offer policy-makers and public health communicators a well designed       and tested way of introducing peer-led education as an accepted element of       the range of approaches and communication methods used in this specific       area.
The `ground up' intervention offered a distinctive dialogic model of       handling young people's learning about alcohol as a risk issue in order to       demonstrate its potential for individual change by improving communication       skills in relation to sensitive subjects.
The project was presented to the       policy community as an innovative approach that was different to       established persuasive social marketing approaches.
There is evidence that       the project has raised awareness within key communities of the value and       contribution of peer education.
This claim is based upon individual       testimonies of participants, their schools and those in the medical and       policy communities who have offered platforms to disseminate the project       findings.
A specific example of corroboration is given in Dr       MacGilchrist's statement.
Impact was embedded in the action research approach.
The young people       developed personal skills through the implementation of their own       programme of alcohol education, running dialogue groups, making a film and       a game that modelled constructive behaviours.
By providing the opportunity       to design their own projects, the intervention contributed to the young       people's confidence and autonomy.
The project had an impact on the lives of young people at PHS as       demonstrated by their own proactive agency in mentoring new volunteers who       have extended the project to younger generations at PHS and four other       schools.
Evidence of personal change and growth was captured on film (see       below) and in feedback sheets.
Project reach will continue to extend via       the young people who act as ambassadors for the dialogue workshops.
The       workshops specifically enhance young people's social and citizenship       skills (self-reflection, respect and civility, listening skills, openness,       constructive attentiveness to differences and collaborative learning).
Such capacities have potential to contribute to civil society over the       longer term.
