     Our research had enduring impact on the way Walsall Council and Health       Authorities in Walsall use the arts to develop better sexual health       services for young people as is evident in the ongoing funding for Walsall       Arts into Health (http://www.walsallartsintohealth.co.uk/).
Mark Webster who was integrally involved in the research project set up       Walsall Arts into Health and reports that this organisation is part of the       legacy of the Working Together to Create Change project.
The Walsall       Health Authority funded a dedicated Arts and Health leader in Walsall Arts       into Health and this funding remains in place in 2013 (Source 2, section       5; also http://www.walsallartsintohealth.co.uk).
The impact has also       reached other areas.
Bal Kaur who was involved in our project now works in       Dudley encouraging an extensive use of the arts by the public health team       around issues connected to sexual health.
Many of the groups we worked with during our research project remain       engaged in 2013.
Some community leaders who emerged at the time of our       research project went on to develop further work inspired by our project.
Motivated by involvement in our research, a community member went on to       serve on the board of Walsall Youth Arts (1997-2010).
The exhibition       `Safety Soapbox: Sharing our true colours' 2001 was the first time the       Walsall Community Arts Team (now the Creative Development Team       http://cms.walsall.gov.uk/creative_development_team) worked with the New       Art Gallery Walsall on a Project and it led to on-going collaborations       between the Gallery, the Community Arts Team and Walsall Youth Arts.
The       project was also part of a range of Arts and Health projects commissioned       by the Walsall Health Authority.
The outcome of our research project led       to many more commissions from the health authorities, (e.g.
Walsall       Primary Care Trust) particularly focusing on the needs of young people       linked to issues related to sexual exploitation and sexual health.
The use of participatory arts methodology in our research demonstrated       that community arts is both a valid and effective research tool and has       ensured that community arts work remains at the centre of many strategies       to improve the quality of life for people living in the Borough of       Walsall.
This is evident in the continued existence of Walsall Arts into       Health       (http://www.walsallartsintohealth.co.uk/).
The outcomes of our research project are now used in training health       professionals in Walsall with regard to youth health issues (see Source 4,       section 5 below).
Much of the Arts and Health work undertaken today with young people in       Walsall, Dudley and the rest of the West Midlands as well as the arts       based research work can be traced back to the pioneering work that took       place as a result of our innovative approach to the working with sexual       health and sexual exploitation issues in Walsall (see Source 4, section 5       below).
As a result of our research the organisation SAFE (Stopping Aggression in       the Family Environment) had their contract extended to offer sexual health       services to women working on the street (see Source 3, section 5 below).
SAFE continues to be funded in 2013 and the `SAFE Project' (see: http://www.safe.wmids.nhs.uk/how.asp)       is primarily focused on promoting the health and well-being of female sex       workers in Birmingham, Sandwell and Walsall, aged 18 or over.
The work       stream developed as a result of our research project continued to be a key       element of the work of Walsall Youth Arts right up to 2010 (see Source 1,       section 5 below).
