     Professional Development and Teacher Training:     The Good Practice Guide proved to be one of the English Subject Centre's       most popular reports with over 200 downloads within its first year of       publication, and is recommended by Brett Lucas in `15 ideas to help with       your course design' (2012) on Queen Mary University's Learning Institute       site.
The team's 2007 AHHE article meanwhile has appeared in a reading       list for the PGCE/GTP at the University of Sussex (2010/11), among the       resources for designing blended learning at the Open University of Hong       Kong (2012), and on English 714: Theories of Pedagogy in English Studies       at the University of Las Vegas, USA (2010).
The team's research has also made a major contribution to the Online       Teaching topic of `The Pool', an HEA/JISC-funded Open Educational Resource       project designed to provide `high quality resources to support HEA       accredited programmes or schemes of professional development that meet the       UK Professional Standards Framework' (HEA Open Materials for Accredited       Courses).
The topic embeds videos from the 2006 Wolverhampton Day       Conference as well as excerpts from the Good Practice Guide (2010).
The Guide itself is available online, hosted initially by the English       Subject Centre (03/02/11: 1457 views; 5830 unique page views) and remains       an open resource via Humbox where it has attracted the following       testimonials: `I recommend it to anyone interested in exploring ways of       enhancing the learning experience of their students by using discussion       boards in any Arts and Humanities discipline' (Teaching Fellow, University       of Leeds); while an Academic Coordinator for the University of       Southampton's Centre for Languages, Linguistics, and Area Studies       commented, `an excellent resource ... which will have applicability across       disciplines' (HumBox Notes &amp; Comments, online).
Course Design and Teaching Materials:     In 2006-07 Miles was made one of six national `E-Learning       Advocates' as part of a project sponsored by the English Subject Centre       promoting good practice in e-learning amongst the HE English community.
As       a result of this, she continued as an E-Learning Consultant for the       English Subject Centre, a contract renewed annually from 2007-2011 and       worth &#163;6,000; she also received an E-learning Project Support grant of       &#163;5,000 in 2011-12 with which to continue her work.
To date she has       addressed over 200 lecturers at more than 20 English departments across       the country (e.g.
Loughborough University (2007), Manchester Metropolitan       University (2008), University of Exeter (2010), University of Surrey       (2010), and Open University (2011)), expanding the project's reach with a       visit to Warwickshire College of FE/HE to speak to colleagues in Business       Studies (2013).
The successful impact of these visits may be measured in responses       attesting to direct inclusion of new techniques into individual modules,       and their significance may be similarly measured in statements suggesting       a wider impact upon overall course design within and beyond English       Studies.
For example, one colleague asserts, `I drew on your visit to       incorporate a discussion board assessment into one of my modules ...
The       new assessment method was an unqualified success' (SL in English,       University of Chester).
Another stated that, `I can confirm that I am       planning a new module for 2011-12 which will incorporate many of the       teaching and assessment methods from Rosie's example' (SL in English,       University of Exeter).
The wider applicability of the ideas and approaches described by Miles       were highlighted by colleagues for their relevance for other subject       disciplines.
For example, the Programme Leader for English &amp; History,       University Centre, Yeovil, responded: `Historians and critics, alike were       impressed with the range of ideas that seeing your model generated';       whilst the SL at Chester cited above presented to a Staff Conference in       2012 to disseminate VLE innovations across the institution (`so ... that       other colleagues ... will also be inspired to follow your excellent       example').
Other colleagues noted the usefulness and applicability of the       technical guidelines produced by the research.
For example, `I was highly       impressed by the technical mechanisms and marking criteria by which forum       contributions were assessed' (Director of Teaching for English, Open       University).
Another colleague stated that they were introduced to `some       excellent assessment guidelines and criteria which ... are really useful       as a basis for future development on our own modules' (SL in English,       University of Cumbria).
Further Innovations in Digital Resources.
Since October 2009 Miles       has run a blog on English Studies and E-Learning as `Ms E-Mentor':       http://www.msementor.co.uk.
It describes her online activities as they       happen during her teaching and is thus another medium through which the       research of the team is modelled in reproducible applications of online       work.
She has employed this platform to explore and promote further       applications of the Wolverhampton research to `Twitter' in a commissioned       article in The Guardian (11/6/12) which was followed by notice in       an article on digital media in the classroom (The Independent,       30/7/12), retweeted over 800 times.
