     Benefiting Economic Prosperity through Media Commissions       Through media commissions, McDonald's research has benefited commercial       clients, and contributed to public knowledge of the history and cultural       significance of humour.
In 2008, publicist Taylor Herring and their client       UKTV commissioned McDonald to research the world's oldest joke in order to       publicise Dave TV, drive traffic to the Dave TV website, and promote a       stand-up comedy event, `Live at the Apollo'.
McDonald's discovery of a       Sumerian flatulence joke (c. 1900 BC) was broadcast in interviews for BBC         Breakfast (TV), BBC Midlands Today (TV), BBC World         Service, Sky News, and 31 local radio stations.
The story       was covered by every major UK newspaper and worldwide (via Reuters) in       such media as China Daily.com, ABC Australia, The Economic Times-India,       and International Business Times-New York, with an estimated audience of       196 million (Taylor Herring, 2008).
The coverage exceeded expectations       (`We also surpassed our original target by getting 90% of online coverage       to credit the Dave website or provide a link directly to it') and the       client responded enthusiastically: `Fantastic Dave coverage .
.
.
super       impressed with the amount of interviews' (TH, 2008).
Additional responses included a chapter on McDonald's findings in Jim       Dawson's Did Somebody Step on a Duck?
: A Natural History of the Fart       (2010), where the `recent discovery of the oldest joke' is the lead       selling feature on Amazon Books.
McDonald was subsequently commissioned to       research, help script, and contribute on screen to Ye Olde Stand Up       (Icon Films), directed by Dominic Weston, and presented by Barry Cryer on       BBC's The One Show (12 August 2010; estimated audience 4.5 million       [BBC Publicity, online]).
More recently, McDonald contributed research and       an on-screen interview for the BBC documentary, Michael Grade and the         World's Oldest Joke (BBC4, 6 and 7 March 2013), previewed in The         Radio Times and widely reviewed in the national press including The         Independent and Daily Mail.
McDonald extends the reach of this research in accessible articles,       published in both regional and national newspapers (e.g.
`How to Write a       Funny Short Story', Birmingham Post, 1 December 2008 [circulation       11,000]; `Heard the One About The Oldest Joke in the World?
', Independent         on Sunday 19 December 2010 [circulation 124,000]).
Internationally,       the research continues to reverberate.
The 19-Emmy Award winning US-based documentary filmmaker and television       producer Troy Hale read of McDonald's work in the Dawson book and invited       McDonald to join a new project, `Fart, a documentary film: the history and       comedy of farting'; McDonald was filmed and interviewed in June 2013 and       the documentary will be released in 2014.
Creating, Inspiring, and Supporting West Midlands Cultural Life       McDonald's comic novels, all published with award-winning Birmingham       publisher Tindal Street Press, have promoted public engagement with       regional issues through humour.
Do I Love You?
(2008) has sold       2000 copies and has been widely reviewed regionally and nationally,       including The Times, The Times Literary Supplement, The         Telegraph, and Time Out, eliciting comments on the novel's       accessibility and local colouring (`as Black Country as Balti and Banks's       Bitter' [Time Out]).
McDonald has also benefited publics by giving readings and workshops at       numerous arts events including, The Birmingham Book Festival (October       2008, audience 60), The Lichfield Literary Festival (October 2012, 40),       The Wellington Literary Festival (October 2012, 30), and The Peterborough       We Love Words Festival (September 2012, 40).
He distributed free books at       Lichfield City Railway Station for World Book Day (3 March 2011), an event       organised by Staffordshire County Council and the train operator London       Midland to `bring people back to reading and encourage them to enjoy ...       their local library' (GlobalRailNews, online); and has given talks and       workshops for numerous institutions, including Winson Green Prison (June       2009), Swinfen Prison (August 2011), and 18 regional libraries, schools,       and colleges within the census period (e.g.
Birmingham Library, Bloxwich       Library, Hereford Library, and Sandwell Academy).
McDonald's interest in the relationship between humour and creativity has       also been disseminated via 7 public lectures and workshops since 2008,       including, `Philosophy, Humour, Writing,' part of the Arts Council funded       Hooky Street Press series `bring[ing] together artists, writers, academics       and comedians in developing a model of art-writing that draws upon ...       comical writing genres outside of art', Eastside Projects, Birmingham,       July 2012, recorded for online broadcast.
The reach of McDonald's research is indicated by the cumulative       audiences of his outreach activities and the local, national, and       international media circulation of his contributions to radio, television,       and print journalism (figures cited above).
Its significance is indicated by favourable reviews and public       notices, his many invitations to give public lectures and workshops       regionally and nationally, and prizes - McDonald is a four times prize       winner in the Ottakar/Faber &amp; Faber Poetry Competition, and won first       prize in both the John Clare Poetry Competition, 2012, judged by Sir       Andrew Motion, and the Sentinel Literary Quarterly Poetry Prize, 2013.
