     It is crucially important for public policy to identify clinical       treatments which combine cost-effectiveness       with clinical efficacy and minimal adverse effects, and this requires an       ongoing       process of evaluation of new pharmaceutical products as they become       available.
This evaluation       requires large scale clinical trials of the kind described above.
The       research described here has       made a significant impact in this regard at both the national and       international level.
Firstly, the SANAD trial was the driver for a major update in 2012 of the       clinical guidelines for the       treatment of epilepsy published by NICE (the National Institute for       Clinical Excellence).
NICE is the       main source of guidance on treatment for healthcare professionals in the       UK.
In 2008 it       commissioned the National Clinical Guidelines Centre for Acute and Chronic       Conditions       (NCGCACC) to partially update the 2004 NICE guidelines on epilepsy       treatment, NICE Clinical       Guideline 20 (2004).
The first stage in the update was the publication in       2009 of a "Scope"       document [5.1] (references listed in Sect 5) which defined the remit for       the guideline update.
Section 3 of this document (3.2 section d), headed "Clinical need for the       guideline", stated       "However, a recent large multicentre trial (the SANAD trial) evaluating         newer drugs in newly         diagnosed epilepsy (accepting some limitations) suggested that sodium         valproate should         be the drug of choice in generalised and unclassifiable epilepsies, and         lamotrigine in partial         epilepsies.
We therefore consider it necessary to review new evidence         regarding anti-epileptic         drugs within an update of the NICE clinical guideline," This       demonstrates that the       SANAD research was the most significant trigger for the update.
Moreover it is clear from the draft consultation version of the       guidelines [5.2] published in 2010 that       the SANAD researchers were asked by NCGCACC to supply additional       unpublished research.
The       final updated version of the guidelines was published in 2012 as NICE       Clinical Guideline 137       (2012) [5.3].
The Introduction to these guidelines repeats the quotation       above, confirming that       SANAD was the major motivation for the update; this introduction appears       as p7 of the full PDF       document and as the "Abstract" on the webpage for the updated guideline.
It is clear from Sect.
1.9       of the guideline, especially 1.9.4, 1.9.12 and 1.9.14, that the treatment       recommendations have       been modified in 2012 to place a greater emphasis on sodium valproate and       lamotrigine, in line       with the SANAD findings.
Secondly, the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) Guidelines       cited SANAD in 2009 [4] as       an important influence on work on updating their guidelines for       monotherapy (i.e.
the treatment by       a single drug).
The updated guidelines were finally published in 2013       [5.5].
The ILAE is the major       international professional organisation representing all those interested       in the field of epilepsy.
The       ILAE publishes an official journal, Epilepsia,       which is the leading, most authoritative source for       current clinical and research results on all aspects of epilepsy.
Epilepsia       periodically publishes the       ILAE Guidelines which represent the current international standard on       epilepsy treatment.
Ref.
[5.4] above was also published in this journal.
Finally German Epilepsy guidelines published in 2008 [5.6] cite SANAD       underpinning the       recommendation for lamotrigine as first line treatment.
Beneficiaries of this work include            People with epilepsy, through better informed treatment choices.
The NHS and other health systems caring for people with epilepsy,         through providing         effective and cost effective care.
Guideline developers including NICE, which have used these data to         underpin their         guidance.
Naturally it will be some time before impacts on public health resulting       from such recent changes in       the guidelines can be measured.
