     Clinical efficacy:     The findings of the prospective, randomised, controlled, and double-blind       dose-response trial conducted by Dr Wilkinson to assess the efficacy of       galvanic vestibular stimulation therapy are detailed in an end-of-grant       report for the MRC (section 5, item 1), and have also been prepared in a       manuscript which has been submitted for publication.
Trial participants (N         = 54) were allocated to one of three active treatment arms in which       the number of stimulation sessions (1, 5 or 10) was manipulated.
The key       outcome measure, the Behavioural Inattention Test, showed a mean symptom       reduction of 28% at one-month follow-up across all three treatment arms,       and was associated with improvement on the Barthel Index, a measure of       activities of functional capacity and independence.
Together these data       raise the exciting possibility that even a single session of stimulation       may be sufficient to induce long-term relief from neglect.
The evidence emerging from this trial is corroborated by clinical       testimony from a Consultant Physician at Kent &amp; Canterbury Hospital       (section 5, item 2), who notes that:     All post-stroke patients are now screened with line bisection and other       subtests of the Behaviour Inattention test and, where appropriate, offered       his GVS [Galvanic Stimulation] treatment which has shown striking early       success.
Other patients with complex conditions involving Cerebellar       balance disorder and language deficits have also benefitted from the       procedure.
This is especially important because these conditions are       linked to length of stay and long-term disability in the community.
The       success of Dr Wilkinson's stimulation study with patients in persistent       vegetative state is now enabling us to repatriate a number of patients       from London to my Canterbury Rehab Unit, thus saving precious resources       for the local health economy and reducing travel for relatives.
Patients interviewed by news agencies also provided striking anecdotal       accounts of how much the treatment developed by Dr Wilkinson has helped       them.
Both ITV Meridian and BBC South East Today TV ran news pieces in       their early evening bulletins featuring stroke patients who said that they       had benefited from the treatment.
These patients appeared alongside their       consultant physician who confirmed that there had been an improvement in       their functional capacities.
This television coverage prompted the editor       of the health section of the Daily Mail newspaper to investigate the       potential impact of Dr Wilkinson's stroke research(section 5,       item 3 summarises media coverage of the work).
Below is an extract from       the article (section 5, item 4):     Stephen McClean, a former plasterer from Ramsgate who suffered a massive       stroke to the right side of his brain three years ago, is one of the first       to benefit from the new treatment.
After six months in hospital recovering       from the paralysis caused by the stroke, the 49-year-old father of two was       left with little awareness of his left side, `I couldn't drive because I       would hit cars parked on the left side of the road,' he says, `I wouldn't       eat food on the left side of my plate or I would push the food on the       left-hand side of the plate on to the table.
It was frustrating.'
Since       having five sessions of treatment at home last year, he is much more aware       of his left side.
`I no longer push the food off the left side of my       plate.
Also, when I painted some fence panels, I did both sides &#8212; which I       wasn't able to do before.
Changes in clinical practice:     The hemi-spatial neglect studies conducted by Dr Wilkinson and colleagues       have led to two recent changes in clinical practice within the local       clinical units (section 5, item 2).
First, galvanic vestibular stimulation       is now prescribed under physicians' directive as an adjunct therapy to the       standard therapy for post-stroke hemi-spatial neglect and cerebellar       ataxia.
Also, patients admitted in either permanent vegetative or       minimally conscious state are, subject to the appropriate consents, given       a 16 week programme of vestibular stimulation to help increase their       arousal and awareness.
Second, all stroke patients admitted to the East       Kent Neuro-rehabilitation Service are now mandatorily screened for       neglect.
This change in routine diagnostic practice was prompted by Dr       Wilkinson's recent finding that three-quarters of patients who present       with limb spasticity also suffer from neglect (Wilkinson et al., 2012).
Patients now receive targeted neglect therapy earlier within their       treatment plan.
Commercial impact:     Scion Neurostim has provided brain stimulators free of charge for Dr       Wilkinson's stimulation research and within the last two years have       awarded him &#163;114,000 to support his work on migraine and persistent       vegetative state (section 5, item 5).
They have utilised his findings to       constrain the design, operation and clinical indications of a portable,       vestibular stimulation device that they are developing.
Throughout       2013-14, Dr Wilkinson is the chief investigator for the UK arm of their       pivotal migraine study, data from which will support a CE application to       both the US Food and Drug Administration and the UK Medicines and       Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency.
Once regulatory approval is       obtained, the device will be marketed as an authorised clinical treatment       for episodic migraine across North America, Europe and developing       countries.
Increasing professionals' and the public's understanding of         neurological disease:     To increase public awareness and understanding of these debilitating       neurological diseases, Dr Wilkinson and colleagues have published articles       in hospital magazines for NHS staff and patients (section 5, Item 6) and       the local newspaper (section 5, item 7).
In national recognition of the       need for clinicians to identify and treat hemi-spatial neglect with       procedures such as vestibular stimulation, Dr Wilkinson's MRC research       study was included in the 2012 and 2013 editions of the Annual       Parliamentary Report on Research and Development in Assistive Technology       (section 5, item 8), published by the Department of Health for government       decision-makers, health practitioners and service users.
One reason why Dr       Wilkinson's research has reached this level of prominence is the many       talks that he has given to clinicians, patients and commissioners within       the local healthcare community.
In the last four years he has given over a       dozen talks, including three keynote addresses (section 5, item 9).
