     Loughlin's research has had a major impact within the healthcare       community, influencing the       thinking of practitioners, service-users and the broader public.
It has       been instrumental in enabling       an appreciation of the philosophical limitations of EBM, making an       important contribution to the       emergence of EIM (allowing practitioners and academics to consider       different ways of framing       practical problems); to the revival of the idea of Person-Centred Medicine       and a new dialogue       between traditional defenders of EBM and its critics - exemplified in the       debates between EBM-theorist Jeremy Howick and prominent practitioner and       EBM-critic Mark Tonelli, that Loughlin       organised as editor of the JECP philosophy-thematic issues.
(Tonelli, a       major force in medical       education in the USA, credits Loughlin's "original work and commentary" as       having "been central in       forcing the evolution of EBM over the last two decades" and he notes that       Loughlin "has been       instrumental in shining the bright light of philosophical analysis upon       the assumptions underlying       the EBM movement, revealing the poorly constructed framework for a claim       that the results of       clinical research should be prescriptive in the care of individual       patients".
This work has been of       benefit to practice because "Very few philosophers have both the       willingness and the ability to take       their case to the right audience, often people who feel they have very       little use for philosophy.
But       for ideas and arguments to matter, they need to be presented to those with       the ability to make       change.")
The underpinning research is embedded in the impact activities.
By linking the debates       about EBM with the quality movement and other policy initiatives, Loughlin       has "at once located the       issues beyond medicine while showing their impact at the daily level of       clinical practice" [C]This       work has been characterised as an "international level intervention"       benefitting patients and       practitioners by moving the debate about practice away from "the framework       of scientistic       reductionism" to one framed by the significance of the personhood of both       parties to the clinical       encounter [A].
His analyses have paved the way for significant       policy developments including the       recent revitalization of Person-Centred Medicine, a development recognised       by the World Health       Organisation as a "major shift in thinking" on the global stage, and which       could not have been       achieved "without the philosophically practical examination of EBM which       internationally eminent       scholars like Loughlin have led for over a decade" [E].
As such       the work has had "unprecedented       influence across many health professions and academic disciplines       achieving both inter-professional and trans-disciplinary significance" [D]     Loughlin has been committed to disseminating his research beyond the       community of       philosophers, communicating ideas and arguments to practitioners through       healthcare journals,       conferences and addresses to professional bodies.
During this Impact       period he has presented       more than 40 papers at conferences and professional gatherings, to groups       as diverse as dentists,       psychiatrists, social workers, NHS quality-improvement organisations,       osteopaths, educationalists,       GPs and construction managers.
He has been invited to head-to-head debates       with the NHS Head       of Clinical Governance (before a 300+ audience of senior NHS staff at the       Royal College of       Physicians) and the Vice-President of the Royal College of General       Practitioners.
He was invited to       give a major address to the prestigious Istituto Superiore di Sanita       in Rome, to an audience       including a diverse range of senior health staff and officials, where       fellow speakers included the       Head of the Italian Cochrane Association (later published as [3]).
He persuaded the British       Association for the study of Community Dentistry to reject       (overwhelmingly) the motion that quality-       of-life measures should provide the basis for commissioning local dental       services in the UK, in a       head-to-head debate with a leading designer of dental QoL measures (debate       hosted by the Royal       College of Physicians).
On the basis of this presentation he was invited       to assist the Royal College       of Surgeons in designing and delivering its postgraduate programmes on       health policy and       leadership, and his work is credited with having "stimulated debate,       helped clarify thinking and in       doing so, helped advance healthcare policy at numerous levels" [B].
He has reached a wider,       public audience by giving radio interviews and writing for more populist       publications than the       academic journals cited above, including the Times Higher Education         Supplement (full page       article),The Philosophers Magazine and the online Scope         Magazine on the need for a proper       philosophical understanding of our current professional, health and social       problems.
Loughlin has made a significant impact on scholarship at the British       School of Osteopathy (BSO)       and through that institution, the osteopathic profession.
The starting       point in the early 90s was the       supervision of Stephen Tyreman's PhD thesis, which applied philosophical       analysis to osteopathic       practice to elucidate the meaning of key ideas within osteopathy.
This,       the first doctoral-level work       to come out of osteopathy, was then used to develop the undergraduate       degree.
(Stephen       Tyreman, is now a Professor and Dean of Osteopathic Education Development,       and also Course       Leader for the Professional Doctorate in Osteopathy (Validated by       University of Bedfordshire) at       the British School of Osteopathy in London.)
Since then Loughlin has       continued to be involved with       the BSO as an external examiner, where he supported the integration of       philosophy into the pre-       registration qualification award.
He later was a visiting contributor to       postgraduate programmes,       where he supported the development of critical analytical thinking and       more recently he has made       a major contribution to the new Professional Doctorate programme in       Osteopathy.
His work on the       limits of scientism [6] has been included in this doctoral       programme and forms the basis for a       defence of osteopathic understandings of evidence in the wake of renewed       attacks on the       discipline from EBM-protagonists.
As a result of his work Loughlin was invited in 2010 to co-author the       Policy Statement on Evidence       for the Science Advisory Council of the College of Medicine, a version of       which is on its website       and summarised in its launch document: http://www.collegeofmedicine.org.uk.
(He is the only       philosopher to have been invited to join its Scientific Advisory       Committee.)
Loughlin is a regular       contributor to the postgraduate programmes in the Faculty of General       Dental Practice in the Royal       College of Surgeons, and has helped develop postgraduate provisions for       health professionals in       London, Bath and Buckingham, where he was awarded the title of Visiting       Professor in Philosophy       as Applied to Medicine, and addressed international audiences of       postgraduate medical students.
He has long-standing links with many organisations working in health and       social care.
In 2011 he       addressed European Association of Schools of Social Work conference on       ethical reasoning in the       context of an irrational world, discussing the migration of the concept of       `Evidence-based practice'       from its origins in medicine to such areas as social work practice.
He was       one of two philosophers       invited to the First UK Meeting of the International Network of       Person-Centred Medicine, which       functions under the direction of the World Health Organisation, World       Psychiatric Association,       Word Association of Family Doctors, World Federation of Medical Educators       and World       Association of Patients' Associations.
In 2013 he addressed an       international conference for health       professionals, policy-makers and researchers in Geneva, organised by the       Network .
He has been       invited to Chair the Special Interest Group for Health Philosophy in the       new European Society for       Person-Centred Healthcare.
With the Society's CEO he is organising (in       collaboration with the       Medical University of Plovdiv, Bulgaria) a series of training sessions in       delivering Person-Centred       care with medical practitioners from across Europe.
