     Recent discoveries in fundamental physics have resonated with the       public's imagination and the world's media and offered a perfect platform       to engage, enthuse and educate both the young and not-so-young       with science.
Our UoA grasped the opportunity given by this media       attention to develop a systematic programme of public engagement, centred       on our antimatter research.
The trapping and storing of antihydrogen (November 2010) produced extensive         global media interest; many TV channels, such as the BBC [C1] and       CNN featured the story in their news bulletins, articles appeared in over       100 newspapers in 25 countries in 15 languages [C2] as well as in all of       the UK's national broadsheets [C3], and a Guardian profile of Charlton was       published in 2009 [C4].
UoA researchers regularly appeared in the media       continuing our group's public engagement by describing our research [C5].
As well as articles on ALPHA in the popular press, the results have also       been featured in scientific magazines and websites that are read       by the public as well as researchers, such as Nature [C6], Scientific       American [C7], Physics World [C8] and New Scientist [C9].
Other accounts       have appeared in RCUK articles [C10] and in the Times Higher Education       Supplement [C11].
Charlton and colleagues wrote educational articles [C12]       and gave public lectures at Science Festivals including Cheltenham       in 2013 [C13].
We have hosted two annual events for high school students for a number of       years: Particle Physics Masterclasses [C14] and Schools         Lectures designed to inspire young people to study physics.
Both       these events are heavily over-subscribed: 2,500 students have attended our       Schools Lectures since 2008 and last year, there were over 150 students       registered for the Masterclasses.
As a result of this demand, we have       doubled the number of Schools Lectures and trebled the number of       Masterclass events we hold each year.
Having established this foundation in our engagement work with school       students, we broadened and refined our events by creating a virtual         ALPHA experiment "Hands on Antihydrogen".
This bespoke       software was written by a programmer employed within the UoA by an EPSRC       "Pathways to Impact" grant totalling &#163;39k [C15].
It is analogous to the       Atlantis event display software developed by the LHC's ATLAS       collaboration, but is interactive rather than static.
The user injects       positrons, antiprotons and electrons and manipulates the electromagnetic       trap parameters in order to confine and then cool the particles before       antihydrogen can be produced, recreating virtually the actual CERN       experiment.
Using questionnaires, we measured the impact of using this       software and the associated antimatter lectures on the students'       understanding.
The statistics show that, as a result of our antimatter       Masterclasses, the students' knowledge of antimatter increased by 150%,       there was a 50% increase in the number who understood both the relevance       of antimatter and where it is produced, and a significant increase in the       number who understood its interactions.
In 2012, we exhibited our antihydrogen work at the National Eisteddfod       aided by an STFC "Science in Society" grant [C16].
Our presentation       attracted 26,000 visitors to the Science Pavilion, and was broadcast on       the Welsh language TV channel S4C.
A centrepiece of the Physics       stand was a large, bilingual (English and Welsh) exhibition board,       summarising the ALPHA antihydrogen experiment staffed by bilingual       presenters from our UoA.
In addition we presented our antihydrogen       research at the Urdd (Youth) Eisteddfod each year from 2011, with an       average attendance of 14,000 in the GwyddonLe (Science Tent) [C17].
Outreach is a core activity at CERN.
The antimatter facility is open for       weekly public tours regularly led by our UoA's Madsen who is an       official Antiproton Decelerator guide, and the content of the tours draws       directly on the research described above.
The impact of these visits to       the antimatter hall (several thousands per year) is clear from the       emails and letters sent to CERN [C18].
These include those from students       stating that as a result of the visit they want to study physics and come       back to CERN, for example: "so many thanks for a brilliant, amazing,         inspiring day" - School pupil visitor.
ALPHA has access to CERN's media unit, and educational videos about the       antihydrogen experiment have been produced for CERN's YouTube       channel [C19] receiving over 100,000 hits.
We also produced a       special CERN interactive webcast on antimatter in November 2012       [C20] which had a record number of viewers [C18], and the ALPHA website in       CERN received 10,000 hits in 2012 [C21].
The plot of the 2009 film Angels and Demons (which grossed       $500m) exploits the CERN antihydrogen project and is based on the       best-selling 2001 novel of the same name [C22].
The film and book credit       CERN and the book acknowledges the Antiproton Decelerator and CERN's "advanced         antimatter production facility" on page 9.
Although the plot centres       on the creation and storage of antimatter in CERN, it contains a number of       scientific gaffes.
An associated book Secrets of Angels and Demons       [C23] correctly explains the science behind the actual CERN research and       contains extensive coverage of ATHENA.
CERN also maintains a website for       members of the public curious about the facts behind the Angels and         Demons fiction [C24].
Summary: Swansea's antimatter research has achieved significant impact         through public engagement building on our world-leading research in       CERN.
This has accomplished:     Reach: Global media interest; scientific magazine articles;       Science Festival lectures; Angels and Demons; CERN public tours;       YouTube educational videos and webcasts.
Significance: Masterclasses; school lectures; improved public       understanding of science; software for a virtual antihydrogen experiment;       Welsh language exposure.
As a result the public perception and understanding of antimatter       has moved from the stuff of science fiction and Star Trek to real science       and actual experiments in CERN.
