 Considering the recent publication of this work, its impact has been swift and considerable.
Professor Gannon and colleagues' research evaluation provided the Government with expert advice &#8212; in the form of their MOJ Report (Gannon et al., 2012) &#8212; about the impact that the additional polygraph stipulation was having on the risk-related disclosures of sexual offenders.
The Government used the results of this evaluation to inform both policy and practice for sexual offenders in England and Wales (section 5, items 1-4).
Previously, sexual offenders released on licence had been supervised via simple one-to-one meetings with their Offender Manager.
Within these meetings, sexual offenders would traditionally talk to their Offender Manager and disclose risk-related information as they felt relevant.
Following the research evaluation undertaken by Professor Gannon and colleagues, the Government proposed that the polygraph be used as an adjunct to traditional supervision practices for all high-risk sexual offenders released on licence in England and Wales and other risk categories of sexual offenders on a discretionary basis.
Professor Gannon and colleague's research evaluation (2012) played a key role in the debate held in both the House of Commons and the House of Lords regarding the legislation required for the supervision of sexual offenders in England and Wales.
For example, it was heavily referenced by Justice Minister Jeremy Wright (see House of Commons General Committee, 2013): An independent evaluation study of the pilots was carried out by the University of Kent.
....
The explanatory memorandum provides a link to the final published report of the evaluation study, which gives full information on the effectiveness of mandatory polygraph testing during the pilot.
In summary, the report concludes that polygraph testing has the potential to lead to more informed and effective supervision by probation officers.
The statutory instrument allowing for polygraph testing to be introduced under the Offender Management Act (2007) passed after a short debate in the House of Commons.
After summarising the research evaluation, Justice Minister Jeremy Wright stated: In conclusion, protecting the public is our overriding priority.
In particular, we are determined to protect children and adults from sexual offending.
To achieve that, we must do all we can to ensure that those who manage sex offenders in the community have the right tools and powers to support them in their work.
The polygraph pilots have indicated that polygraph testing leads to improvements in the supervision of sex offenders in the community by providing probation offender managers with a valuable additional source of information with which to monitor licence conditions more closely.
The Government are therefore seeking to make polygraph testing available as a licence condition for sex offenders in England and Wales.
The draft order will enable us to do that.
During the later debate that followed in the Lords (House of Lords, 2013), Lord McNalley referenced the research evaluation as follows: Now that the pilots are complete and have been evaluated, I am pleased to report that they were very successful.
....
The evaluation is a robust study of the mandatory polygraph pilot.
....
The evaluation found that the offenders subject to polygraph testing made more "clinically significant disclosures" than the comparison group.
These are disclosures that led to changes in the way the offender was managed.
Information disclosed as part of the polygraph process led to probation offender managers taking additional actions to manage the offender's risk and to improve compliance with their licence conditions.
This included, for example, changing the focus or frequency of supervision or, if combined with further information, recalling the offender to custody.
The explanatory memorandum includes a link to the final published report of the evaluation study.
That report provides full information on the effectiveness of mandatory polygraph testing during the pilot.
In summary, it concludes that polygraph testing has the potential to lead to more informed and effective supervision by probation officers.
The statutory instrument allowing for polygraph testing was discussed by the House of Lords on 22nd July, 2013, and granted formal approval.
The legislation change will make it compulsory for sexual offenders in England and Wales, particularly high risk offenders, to be polygraphed as part of their licence conditions and will come into force on 6th January, 2014.
At present, this equates to the polygraph being implemented with at least 980 sexual offenders in the UK.
The MOJ are incorporating findings from Gannon et al.
's (2012) research evaluation in guidance for Offender Managers and polygraphers.
The research evaluation is also informing the development of data capture and monitoring in the empirical evaluation of the national roll-out occurring in 2014 (section 5, item 5) The research evaluation has been cited in the media both nationally and internationally having received well over 200 coverage appearances.
Examples include: Sky News, BBC News, Radio 4, the Guardian Online, Mail Online, the Daily Express, the Telegraph, the London Evening Standard, and the Birmingham Post.
The dissemination of the research evaluation, in particular, has stimulated public debate on use of the polygraph with sexual offenders including debates concerning the ethics of using the polygraph as a truth facilitator given the epistemic validity of polygraph testing (University of Oxford Practical Ethics Blog http://tinyurl.com/oxpolyblog), the accuracy of polygraph equipment (Telegraph, 31st July, 2012) and general approaches to ensuring public safety in the context of sexual offending (BBC Radio 4, 27th November, 2012; Chris French; Guardian online, August 2012; Stop Crimes Against Children Facebook Page https://www.facebook.com/UK.database).
