     The underpinning research has demonstrable policy-relevance and impact       across several dimensions of inequality, including gender, age, ethnicity,       religion, sexual orientation and disability.
This research therefore       covers the main groups that have been identified in the Equality Act 2010       as a protected characteristic.
The report produced by WISERD for the EHRC brought together various       dimensions of inequality and provided a similar but updated report for       Wales to that produced for the UK by the NEP.
Not only did the WISERD       report contain information on a range of economic inequalities in Wales,       it also undertook far more detailed comparisons at a sub-UK level than in       the NEP's report.
The WISERD report has been discussed on several       occasions in the National Assembly for Wales' Communities, Equalities and       Local Government Committee, with the Welsh Minister for Finance describing       the report, in October 2011, as "an important piece of research"       and commenting in October 2012 that it "had been used a lot       "in the joint WG and EHRC equality impact assessment of the       devolved budget for Wales [C1].
Moreover, the report played a valuable       role in providing evidence on which the WG based its financial         decisions.
The EHRC's Commissioner for Wales described the report in       an article in the Western Mail as "groundbreaking".
Some of the findings from the WISERD report, especially from the chapter       on educational inequalities written by Drinkwater and Parhi, with Taylor       (Cardiff), were also discussed at the National Assembly for Wales and led       to an amendment to a motion in February 2012.
This amendment highlighted       the report's contribution and quoted statistics on educational       inequalities from the report, with reference to the Pupil Deprivation       Grant [C2].
This scheme was subsequently introduced across Wales in         2012, with the aim of improving the educational attainment of       children from the poorest backgrounds.
The report has also been cited by the majority of unitary authorities         in Wales (including Anglesey, Cardiff, Caerphilly, Carmarthenshire,       Conwy, Denbighshire, Gwynedd, Flintshire, Powys, Torfaen and Wrexham) in       connection with their equality promises made in the light of the 2010       Equality Act.
For example, Torfaen Council used the report directly to         identify its equality priorities [C3].
The report was also cited in       the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales' Child Poverty Strategy,       published in March 2012 [C4], and used extensively in the Equal Pay Duty       Briefing Note produced by the NHS in Wales [C5].
Presentations were made by Drinkwater to WG policy makers in May       2011; to delegates (comprising mainly practitioners from the housing       sector) at the Shelter Cymru conference in Swansea in June 2011, and to       National Assembly members and officials in Cardiff Bay in October 2012.
The report has led to much debate in Wales, as well as featuring in the UK       media, and was the main news item on virtually all Welsh media outlets       when it was launched on May 12th 2011 [C6].
For example, BBC       Radio Wales' main morning news programme was based around the report,       commencing with an interview with Drinkwater.
The underpinning research has led to reports and articles in academic       journals which have influenced and shaped policy debate and         developments in Wales, the UK and the EU.
This initially related to       the increased interest from policy-makers in the labour market performance       of ethnic minorities in the UK, with the recognition of the ethnic       diversity in labour market outcomes.
For example, an important DWP report       from 2009 cites Blackaby et al.
[R2] as well as       some of Drinkwater's research [C7].
Swansea economists have also       interacted with policy-makers through seminars organised by government       departments (especially the DWP and WG) as well as sitting on advisory       committees and by contributing to public debates on these important and       often controversial issues.
Examples include Blackaby and Drinkwater       sitting on the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF)'s Poverty and Ethnicity       Advisory Group for Wales and Blackaby on the Royal Economic Society's       Women's Committee during the review period.
The JRF programme on Poverty       and Ethnicity in the UK highlights research co-authored by Drinkwater       as a key publication [C8].
The underpinning research has also yielded international reach,       informing policy debate in Europe and in Australia.
The results of O'Leary       and Sloane's research have been presented at several European level       policy-focused workshops, including the Agora Conference on Addressing       Skill Mismatch on Matching Skills and Jobs in 2009 &#8212; which was attended by       leading EU policy makers.
The first of four, CEDEFOP-funded reports       produced by O'Leary and Sloane on skill mismatch across       the European Union (EU) and in Australia, led to a CEDEFOP publication       largely based around research undertaken at Swansea, which has since been       translated into several languages [C9].
Research undertaken in Swansea was       also fundamental to a chapter on skill mismatch appearing in a major       European Commission publication in 2012 [C10].
