     The nature of the impact concerns both policy and practice, and reach has       been extensive across       the range of areas covered by the underpinning research.
Since much of       this takes place within       organisations, particularly in relation to workplace mediation, it is not       however always easy to       identify let alone quantify.
This section highlights two key areas for       impact: lay members in       employment tribunals, and workplace mediation.
This impact is diverse in       nature, ranging from       shaping policy and practitioner debates to providing evidence that has       either confirmed or       challenged policy and practice.
The `lay members' project has been extremely influential in       shaping/informing public and political       debate following the publication in January 2011 of the Coalition       government's Resolving       Workplace Disputes consultation.
At his request, the Head of Employment       Policy in the Tribunals       Service was sent emerging survey findings (05/11) and pre-publication       copies of the final survey       and stakeholder interview reports (11/11), which were shared with       colleagues in BIS, and the       research was acknowledged in the government's response to the consultation       [C2].
The proposed       changes were nonetheless pursued on the basis of costs and contrary to the       research findings, but       with the proviso that "We will use the research to evaluate the         findings of the first year of operation,         once judges have begun to sit alone in more cases, to see whether a         reversal or extension of the         policy is necessary" (BIS, 2011:31).
The research was subsequently       discussed in Parliament       (Hansard, 13/03/12 [C6]).
The findings have also been picked up and widely disseminated through       various professional/trade       newsletters, including a summary in the Employment Lawyers' Association       (ELA) newsletter - a       body with nearly 6,000 members drawn from all branches of the legal       profession.
The highly       influential and well regarded Incomes Data Services carries the full       survey report on its website,       and a recent editorial in its bi-monthly magazine, taken by employers,       trade unions, government       departments, lawyers and the judiciary, described the findings from the       surveys in some detail.
(The number of subscribers is confidential, but likely to be thousands,       including human resources       departments, trade unions, judges and lay members in both ETs and the       Employment Appeal       Tribunal.)
The work has been reported in online legal and other       newsletters for various audiences       and has further prompted debate among stakeholders on LinkedIn.
The       researchers themselves       contributed an invited article to Tribunals, the magazine of the       Judicial College (Winter 2011).
A positive impact is evident in relation to workplace mediation, where       published work (and also on       ETs) was cited in both the BIS RWD Consultation Impact Assessment,       and extensively in the Acas       response (among others).
Work undertaken with colleagues at Westminster       Business School for       the Trades Union Congress (TUC) has provided evidence foregrounded in       their response to both       this consultation and a subsequent MoJ consultation on the introduction of       tribunal application       fees, while a small-scale survey of mediation providers undertaken by       Latreille with the Civil       Mediation Council, was also used extensively in their response to the       former.
Latreille was asked to respond to this consultation in his own right and       subsequently invited to       provide expert evidence on mediation's effectiveness at a BIS RWD       consultation discussion with       key stakeholders (04/11), drawing inter alia on the thematic       review produced during his Acas       Placement Fellowship [R2].
He later attended an invited Ministerial       mediation meeting to discuss       increasing the use of mediation (07/11), at which the then Minister (Ed       Davey) highlighted a       proposal for mediation networks among small and medium-sized enterprises       (SMEs).
This idea       was first identified publicly in a report written during Latreille's Acas       Placement Fellowship (now       published in an academic journal [R3]), subsequently included in his       response to the RWD       consultation and discussed with policy officials.
It is now being       implemented as a pilot in two       regions [C2].
In relation to practitioners, Latreille's research on SMEs has been       referred to and carried on the       website of a major mediation provider (CMP Resolutions), and in the       promotional materials of       another (TCM), while the thematic review of case studies published in the       Acas series was       described by Andrew Wareing, Acas' Director of Delivery, as "an         important contribution to the         evidence base and a valuable resource for promoting better understanding         of mediation" (foreword       to [R2]).
Latreille has also presented on this topic, by invitation, to       policymakers and practitioners at       high profile events, e.g., an Acas seminar at the British Library (03/11)       to around 60 attendees,       including senior and HR managers from large public and private sector       organisations,       policymakers from the MoJ, BIS, TUC and trade unions, lawyers, etc.
and       several major mediation       providers.
The presentation from this event, which is available online,       has been viewed in excess       of 500 times.
Latreille has also presented on mediation to Acas staff       (including its Chairman) at a       workshop and at CPD (PGCert) training events for Acas conciliators and to       CIPD Scotland       members at a seminar in Edinburgh.
