 In the absence of a comprehensive aetiological and typological account of firesetting, offenders who had set fires did not generally receive treatment.
When they did, it was developed `in house' and was unable to target less prototypical yet commonly seen firesetters.
Professor Gannon encountered this problem in 2008 during the course of her clinical practice, where she was asked to develop an in-house treatment for sexual offenders who also set fires.
At this point, Professor Gannon and her colleagues at the University of Kent began to formulate the theory and research specified in this case study (e.g., Gannon &amp; Pina, 2010).
Later, once the M-TTAF had been developed and additional research evidence into the specialist treatment needs of firesetters had been gathered (e.g., Gannon et al., in press), two key treatment manuals were developed.
One of these manuals was developed for the assessment and treatment of firesetters within secure mental health services (the Fire Intervention Programme for Mentally Disordered Offenders (FIP-MO); section 5, item 1) and one was developed for the assessment and treatment of firesetters within the prison service (the Fire Intervention Programme for Prisoners (FIPP; section 5, item 2).
The aim of these manuals was to provide empirically informed standardised clinical assessment and treatment procedures for adult firesetters in the absence of any accepted protocol.
In these manuals, treatment needs are formulated according to the M-TTAF theory, enabling clinicians to provide a suite of individualised interventions tailored for each firesetter.
Through these treatment manuals, the theory and research developed by our researchers has informed (1) the training, assessment, and treatment practices of clinical professionals who work with adult firesetters, both within secure establishments and community settings (FIP-MO), and (2) the sentence and care-planning structures provided for incarcerated adult firesetters (FIPP).
The FIP-MO in mental health settings: Within both private and NHS secure mental health services, the FIP-MO is being utilised by psychologists, assistant psychologists and multidisciplinary professionals who have been specifically trained by Professor Gannon using a training package derived from her research (see section 3).
The FIP-MO is being implemented across 12 establishments run by 9 NHS or private health care trusts nationally: Allington Centre (Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care Partnership Trust) Alpha Hospital Bury (Nottinghamshire Healthcare) Arnold Lodge (Nottinghamshire Healthcare) Broadmoor Hospital (West London Mental Health NHS Trust) Brockfield House (South Essex NHS University Partnership Trust), Guild Lodge (Lancashire Care NHS Foundation Trust) Hellingly Centre (Sussex NHS Partnership Trust) Newton Lodge (South West Yorkshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust) Ravenswood House (Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust) Roseberry Park (Tees, Esk, and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust) St Andrews Hospital (St Andrews Healthcare) Trevor Gibbens Unit (Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care Partnership Trust) By 31st July 2013, a total of 50 patients had been assessed and treated using the FIP-MO.
The treatment of these patients is complete and controlled evaluation research comparing these patients to a treatment-as-usual group, and is due to complete in 2014.
Professionals from the establishments implementing the FIP-MO have verified that the FIP-MO has: developed a care pathway for deliberate firesetters which did not exist in secure mental health services previously (section 5, item 4); provided increased confidence to professionals working with deliberate firesetters; and improved overall treatment provision for this client group (section 5, items 5, 6).
The FIPP in prisons: Within HM Prison Service, the FIPP is being utilised by psychologists and assistant psychologists across four prison establishments in the South of England (HMP Elmley, HMP Isle of Wight, HMP Sheppey, HMP Stanford Hill).
All psychologists are trained in full by Professor Gannon using a training package derived from her research.
Notably, prisoner transfers have been taking place since January 2013 from prisons nationally to both Sheppey and Elmley prisons to ensure that firesetters are having their particular needs met.
By 31st July 2013, a total of 75 prisoners had been assessed using the FIPP, 45 had received FIPP treatment, and a further 20 are currently receiving FIPP treatment.
Similarly to the FIP-MO, controlled evaluation research for the FIPP is due to complete in 2014.
However, professionals from the establishments implementing the FIPP have verified that the FIPP is playing a key role in sentence planning and parole board hearings for firesetting prisoners (section 5, item 7) and is currently meeting a need that is not being met by existing treatment programmes within HM Prison Service (section 5, item 8).
For example, the FIPP has been described as representing, "a significant step forward in the treatment of this specialised population" (section 5, item 8) the results of which make up the "final Dossier disclosed to the offender, parole board, solicitors, and probation" (section 5, item 10).
In addition to the standardised FIP-MO and FIPP assessment and treatment programmes currently being utilised, the comprehensive aetiological account of firesetting (i.e., the M-TTAF; Gannon et al., 2012) has been used by practitioner professionals both nationally and internationally in other assessment and intervention initiatives.
For example, in Australia, Fritzon and colleagues (2013) have developed a treatment manual for individualised intervention with firesetters in the Australian community (section 5, items 3, 11), and are beginning to implement the intervention.
Most notably, treatment provision within this intervention is planned according to one of the five identifiable pathways outlined by the M-TTAF developed by our researchers (section 5, item 9).
Furthermore, within the prison service and private practice in the UK, psychologists are also using the M-TTAF model as an empirically informed guide to undertake risk assessments with deliberate firesetters.
There are currently no validated risk assessments for use with firesetters and so in the absence of such a tool, professionals are using the M-TTAF in a clinically structured manner to develop their knowledge of this client group and to guide appropriate questioning for risk assessment purposes (section 5, item 11).
