     This research has swiftly led to impact on the assessment and treatment       of offenders in the UK and internationally.
Since 2010, a number of       practitioner organisations worldwide (including both correctional and       non-government organisations) have used Professor Gannon's research       findings to inform their training, assessment and treatment practices.
For       example, the Correctional Service of Canada &#8212; one of the few worldwide       correctional facilities to provide group female sexual offender treatment       &#8212; now incorporate Gannon and colleagues' (2010, 2012) pathways into their       training materials for all new facilitators who work with female sexual       offenders (section 5, item 2).
The research is used to guide clinicians in       their evaluation and assessment of specific offence styles so that       offenders' particular treatment needs may be identified more readily       (section 5, item 1).
The Lucy Faithfull Foundation (a UK non-government       child protection charity) provides all of their professionals with       training in the assessment of female sexual offenders using Professor       Gannon and colleagues' pathways research (section 5, item 4).
Similarly,       in the USA, a number of states that provide assessment and treatment for       female sexual offenders use the pathways research (e.g., Gannon et al.,       2008) to aid them in their conceptualisation and assessment of female       clients' treatment needs.
For example, Assessment and Treatment       Alternatives Inc. Philadelphia (a non-profit forensic mental health       clinic) use the pathways research to underpin treatment assessment for       each individual client.
Arizona Corrections, USA also use the pathways work and research on       female sexual offenders' cognitive characteristics to underpin assessment       and to structure therapeutic sessions with female sexual offenders.
One of       their Clinical Psychologists (section 5, item 3) states that Gannon and       colleagues' pathways model:     provides a key guide for (1) how I approach my assessment of female       sexual offenders (i.e., how I identify particular styles of female sex       offender and their likely treatment targets), and also (2) how I approach       the difficult task of structuring topics addressed throughout therapy.
I       have also used Gannon's research on the cognitive constructs associated       with female sexual offending (i.e., Gannon, Hoare, Rose, &amp; Parrett       2012) throughout my practice to structure discussions with female sex       offender clients about their risky thought processes...
Therefore, I use       the pathways model to assist female sex offenders to look at the       developmental life pathway they took that brought them to prison.
The       pathways model is notable here since it provides women with a model that       is actually based on female sex offenders' own reflections and so       highlights several gender relevant issues that we can discuss and explore       (e.g., sexual development, abuse at the hands of males, childcare       responsibilities, attitudes that develop toward males).
In a summary of research and practice in the area of female sexual       offending, the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children       (NSPCC) (section 5, item 5, p. 9) cited Gannon and colleagues' (2008) work       as being key in understanding the differences between male and female       sexual abusers.
The NSPCC described the work representing "a clear step       forward in informing the assessment and treatment of women" (p. 29).
This       work (as well as Gannon et al., 2012; Gannon &amp; Rose, 2009) has been       cited in numerous practitioner resources for use in treating female sexual       offenders (e.g., Section 5, item 6), NSPCC resources regarding practical       safeguarding of children (section 5, item 7), and has also been cited in       `additional guidance' for civil servants dealing with female child sexual       offender disclosure requests (section 5, item 8).
Further impact has been generated via dissemination to practitioner       professionals.
For example, in 2010 Professor Gannon was invited by the       National Organisation for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers (NOTA; a UK       sexual abuse practitioner organisation hosting an international       conference) to provide a keynote address to approximately 200 attendees       regarding her complete body of research on female sexual offenders       (section 5, item 9).
There appears to be a deficit in public understanding of the prevalence       of sexual abuse committed by women.
The extent and seriousness of the       abuse may not be fully appreciated.
As a result, victims may feel unable       to report the abuse making it more difficult for professionals to detect       and address the needs of victims of this abuse.
For this reason, Professor       Gannon has sought to use her research to heighten public awareness of this       unrecognised form of abuse.
For example, in 2009, Professor Gannon took       advantage of an invitation to provide online commentary for The Guardian       `Comment is Free' online forum, which raised public awareness of female       sexual offenders` characteristics and resulted in members of the public       discussing the issue of female sexual offenders online (section 5, item       10).
