     Professor Iraj Hashi's work on employee participation in the equity and       profits of their companies has been influential in policy decisions made       by a number of EU institutions, particularly the European Economic and       Social Committee, the European Parliament and finally the European       Commission.
His work started with Hashi (1998) on employee owned companies       in Poland, which was the basis of, and informed, his involvement in the       preparation of two PEPPER Reports (Hashi, et al., 2006; and Lowitzsch,       Hashi and Woodward, 2009).
These Reports reignited the EU institutions'       interest in the idea of employee ownership and participation.
The European Economic and Social Committee (EESC), a tripartite body       representing employers, employees and other interested groups, published       an `Own Initiative Opinion' in 2010, encouraging the Commission to take       more effective action in promoting employee participation across the EU       (details below).
This document clearly refers to the PEPPER Reports as       laying the foundation for further work on EFP.
In 2010 the Commission opened a call for a project on "Information and       Communication Project - Promoting Employee Financial Participation in the       EU-27, ProEFP" (VP/ 2010/013); http://vimeo.com/34089754,       which aimed at opening a debate on, and promoting, the subject across       Europe.
The project involved organising national conferences in nine       European capitals, culminating in a week-long programme (the Week of       Employee Financial Participation) and a Conference on 17-19 October 2011       in Brussels, hosted by the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC).
For details, see Conference Notice on: http://vimeo.com/34089754.
Professor Hashi was one of the speakers at this Conference.
Activities in       the Week of Employee Participation further attracted the attention of a       number of European institutions to the relevance and importance of this       topic.
A major employers' organisation, the European Centre of Employers and       Enterprises Providing Public Services (CEEP) (whose members account for       30% of total employment in the EU), commissioned a report on the relevance       of employee financial participation schemes for its members.
A team of       researchers, led by Prof Lowitzsch and Prof Hashi, successfully applied       for this project and prepared a report (Lowitzsch and Hashi, 2011) for       CEEP.
This report was presented at a Seminar to members of the       organisation and an invited audience.
Professor Hashi was one of the       presenters of the report at the Seminar.
In 2011 the European Parliament commissioned a Study on the present state       of employee participation and policies aimed at facilitating and       encouraging this phenomenon.
A team of researchers, again led by Prof       Lowitzsch and Prof Hashi, succeeded in bidding for this project and       prepared the Study for the European Parliament.
Prof Hashi's research on       factors influencing the adoption of EFP schemes (Hashi and Hashani, 2011)       informed this Study.
The Study was presented at a conference in the       European Parliament on 3 October 2012.
A public hearing held at the European Parliament on 22 March 2012       underlined the need to collect information on national legislation on       employee ownership and participation in different EU countries, aiming to       establish a European Centre for Employee Ownership in each Member State to       deliver information, training and advice to employees, enterprises and the       public in order to facilitate the promotion and implementation of       appropriate legislation for better development of employee ownership and       participation.
In order to follow the conclusions of this hearing, on       April 2013 the Commission published an open call for tenders       (MARKT/2013/019/F) on the "Implementation of the Pilot Project &#8212; Promotion       of Employee Ownership and Participation" (tender documents available on 	  http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/internal_market/calls/       then choose MARKT/2013/019/F).
The terms of reference of this tender       clearly indicate that the PEPPER Reports and Lowitzsch and Hashi (2012)       are the basis of further work in this area (see especially pp.
16-20).
The       Pilot Project will not only produce new research on the impact of EFP, it       will also involve the establishment of a European Centre for Employee       Ownership in each Member State.
Prof Hashi and his colleagues have been       awarded this project in a competitive tender and are currently engaged in       this project (see section 3).
The European Commission has also included the promotion of employee share       ownership and participation as a component of its Action Plan to reform       European company law and corporate governance (COM (2012) 0740; Section       3.5, p 11 ff) (available at:       http://eurlex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2012:0740:FIN:EN:PDF).
This will have a major impact on the development of EFP in European       countries.
A Resolution is now being prepared for the European Parliament for a       formal decision and Recommendation to the Commission on Employee Financial       Participation.
