     How the research underpinned the impact:     By the late 1990s/early 2000s, CAMRA and SIBA had developed an effective       campaign for PBD.
However, campaign proposals lacked the analytic foundations needed to       survive initial screening       by the Government Economic Service and other officials in Her Majesty's       Treasury (HMT).
In the       words of Iain Lowe, the then Research Manager at CAMRA, "CAMRA has been       pressing for such       a system for a long time ...
I am still unclear exactly what we need"       (e-mail of September 25th 1998 - a       copy can be made available on request).
The research published in Pugh,       Tyrrall and Wyld       (2001) gave CAMRA and SIBA what they needed: i.e.
rigorous evidence rooted       in economic theory       (in particular, identifying the market failure to be corrected by PBD).
These analytic underpinnings       gave "bite" (as CAMRA put it) to their proposals in negotiations with       Government (especially HMT).
Accordingly, this research helped to change the Government's response to       the campaign from       "Ministers are not convinced that a tax concession was an appropriate way       of encouraging       competition in the beer market" (Fax dated 23rd March 1999 to       CAMRA from Anne Locke, Assistant       Director, EC Competition Policy, Department of Trade and Industry; a       scanned pdf can be provided       on request) to being "minded to introduce" a reduced rate of duty on the       beer produced by small       breweries (March 2001 Budget Statement, Alcohol and Tobacco Duties:       http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20070101084430/http://hmrc.gov.uk/budget2001/ce2.htm).
In       particular, the research promoted PBD by demonstrating that it could be an       instrument for       promoting SME development, which by then was established as a major       Government policy       agenda.
Early results of the research reported in this impact study were       submitted to Her Majesty's Custom       and Excise as early as December 1999 ("The Market Access Case for       Progressive Beer Duty: A       Submission to Government by the Society of Independent Brewers"; the       original or a scanned pdf       can be provided on request).
The research was well received by CAMRA, SIBA       and the trade       press.
It was subsequently presented to a meeting of CAMRA's Industry       Committee with the Chair       of the Parliamentary Beer group in attendance (January 29th       2000) and then formally submitted to       HM Treasury by CAMRA.
The sliding scale was introduced in the 2002 Budget.
The nature and extent of the impact:     The evidence for impact is two-fold.
The research provided the analytic foundations for a joint         consumer-group and producer-group         campaign to bring about a change in public policy.
The benefits claimed ex-ante in the research have been subject to a         rigorous ex-post         evaluation, which demonstrated the positive impact of the 2002 reform on         business         formation in the small brewery sector.
In short, the 2002 reform enabled         a substantial         number of small breweries to set up that otherwise would not have been         able to get started         in the industry.
The Abstract of Wyld, Pugh and Tyrrall (2010, p.225) summarises the       "nature and extent of the       impact".
We examine whether the 2002 introduction of progressive beer duty (PBD)       in the UK has       had its desired or predicted effects.
The purpose of the new tax relief       was, in the words of       the then Chancellor of the Exchequer, to "encourage one group of small       businesses: the       nation's small brewers".
A dataset has been created of all small breweries       in the United       Kingdom from 1988 to 2008, recording the dates of their creation,       progression, and, where       relevant, extinction.
We find ... evidence of an increase in the rate of       formation of small       breweries.
These findings are consistent with predictions from standard       economic theory       and thus may be relevant to wider policy debate on the use of targeted tax       breaks to       support small and medium enterprises.
These claims were endorsed by Colette Henry, the then President of the       Institute for Small       Business and Entrepreneurship at the Royal Veterinary College, University       of London, who       commented on the ex-post evaluation of Wyld, Pugh and Tyrrall (2010) as       follows: "... this paper       makes an important contribution to the policy literature by lending       further support to the argument       that financially based policy incentives can often encourage new entrants       to the market place."
Guest Editorial: SME policy and the role of government, in: Environment         and Planning C:         Government and Policy 2010, Vol.
28, pp.
191-194; here, p.193.
DOI:10.1068/c2802ed.
In sum, the research reported in Section 3 made a significant       contribution to a successful policy       innovation; namely, a targeted tax reform to support small breweries.
Subsequent claims by both       HMT and CAMRA/SIBA as to the success of the reform were endorsed by       rigorous evaluation       undertaken by Wyld, Pugh and Tyrrall (2010).
This research demonstrably       played a role in change       that continues to generate new businesses (well over 100 by 2008) and new       jobs (at least several       hundred by 2008) that otherwise would not have been brought into       existence.
In 2011, this research was selected as an example of "useful" research to       showcase to the media       during the national "Universities Week".
(This can be documented by e-mail       correspondence,       which is available on request.)
One additional aspect of the impact of this research is that it helped to       level the imbalance of       intellectual resources between a group of small producers on the one hand       and powerful large       producers on the other (large breweries have no interest in promoting       increased competition from       small/microbreweries).
In this respect, the research has also played a       modest community       development role.
