     Melioidosis is a threat to human health throughout South and East Asia,       Northern Australia, the Indian subcontinent and areas of South America.
Due to rising life expectancy and an increase in predisposing conditions       for melioidosis (such as diabetes mellitus), the annual incidence of human       melioidosis in the Ubon Ratchathani province of Thailand has substantially       increased from 4.4 per 100,000 people for the period 1987 to 1991, to 21       per 100,000 in 2012.
The number of people dying from melioidosis in northeast Thailand is now       comparable to deaths from tuberculosis, and exceeds those from malaria,       diarrhoeal illnesses and measles combined, diseases considered to be a       high priority by funding agencies and global health organisations.
In north-eastern Thailand, melioidosis accounts for 20% of all       community-acquired septicaemias, and causes death in 40% of conventionally       treated patients.
B pseudomallei is an environmental saprophyte       found in wet soils.
Melioidosis is characterised by formation of       abscesses, especially in the lungs, liver, spleen, skeletal muscle, and       prostate.
In a third of paediatric cases in Southeast Asia, the disease       presents as a parotid abscess.
In northern Australia, 4% of patients       present with brain stem encephalitis.
The work of The University of Oxford's MORU has primarily been to define       strategies to reduce mortality from melioidosis and to develop       evidence-based guidelines on the prevention of infection.
International Guidelines:     As a result of MORU's underpinning research into treatment regimes5,         7, the World Health Organization's Centers for Disease Control and       Prevention now recommend the use of ceftazidime or meropenem as an       intravenous therapy for melioidosis8.
The same recommendations can also be found on UpToDate&#174;, an       evidence-based clinical decision support system authored by physicians to       help clinicians make the right decisions at the point of care.
The       articles cite the MORU studies as the primary evidence in support of       treatment 9.
An important advance has come from MORU's research demonstrating the       superiority of carbapenem antibiotics for severe acute disease10.
UpToDate&#174; have also included these observations, reporting on       treatment in the Northern Territory of Australia where melioidosis is       hyperendemic.
According to UpToDate&#174; all patients requiring       intensive care unit (ICU) admission in the Northern Territory are treated       with meropenem.
Meropenem is used rather than imipenem because of fewer       neurologic side effects.
Without access to appropriate antibiotics       (principally ceftazidime or meropenem), the septicaemic form of       melioidosis has a mortality rate that exceeds 90%.9     UpToDate&#174; cites the 1999 and 2005 MORU trials as the primary       evidence for the recommended 3 month eradication therapy with TMP-SMX and       doxycycline.
Clinical Practice:     The Unit's research has also identified nutritional support as a major       determinant of the outcome of chronic melioidosis infection.
This has led       to new strategies to support patient nutrition and has improved survival       rates.
Focus on high-risk individuals and rapid diagnosis is important in order       to start treatment at an early stage.
The introduction of       immunofluorescent based assays to detect bacteria by microscopy of pus,       sputum, and urine has been useful in Thailand.
The time to diagnosis has       been reduced to 30 minutes.
