     The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated there were 8.8 million new       cases of tuberculosis,       of all forms, in the world in 2010 and 1.45 million deaths.
TB meningitis       represents 1% of cases but       is disproportionately important because it causes such high mortality and       severe disability.
It       affects all groups but peaks in children aged 2-4 years and makes up 5-7%       of admissions to       specialist paediatric neurology units in some countries.
It is also common       in untreated HIV infection       and the incidence of tuberculosis is increasing in some industrialised       countries, for example       doubling in London in the last 10 years5.
Primary research from OUCRU Vietnam showing that dexamethasone treatment,       given in       combination with existing antibiotic treatment significantly improves       survival rates in adults and       adolescents with TB meningitis, led the British Infection Society       and the WHO to introduce       adjuvant corticosteroid treatment as standard therapy for TB meningitis.
An independent Cochrane review published in 2008 emphasised the       importance of the OUCRU       trial in providing the first, adequately randomised trial of steroids in       TB meningitis with adequate       follow-up and blinded outcome assessment.
The Cochrane meta analysis,       which combined all       data, concluded that dexamethasone indeed reduces mortality and disability       by 30%6.
In 2009 the British Infection Society guidelines for the diagnosis         and treatment of tuberculosis of         the central nervous system in adults and children, which was       authored by Dr Guy Thwaites (first       author of OUCRU Vietnam's pivotal 2004 longitudinal study) showed that       dexamethasone       (corticosteroid) therapy improves survival in patients with TB meningitis.
These guidelines cite the       key research from OUCRU Vietnam recommending: "Adjunctive corticosteroids       (either       dexamethasone or prednisolone) should be given to all patients with TBM,       regardless of disease       severity"7.
Chapter eight of the WHO's Treatment of Tuberculosis Guidelines &#8212;         Fourth Edition8, which was       last updated in 2010, cites OUCRU Vietnam's primary 2004 paper as key       evidence in its guidance       for the treatment of TB meningitis, stating: "Unless drug resistance is       suspected, adjuvant       corticosteroid treatment is recommended for TB meningitis and       pericarditis"8.
