     Our research has had a positive impact on children's motivation to read,       reading frequency, reading repertoires, and confident participation in the       shared social experience of reading.
In Teachers as Readers: Building         Communities of Readers (Phase II), 43 teachers from five LAs       identified disaffected readers and, through exploring their informal       reading practices, transformed their own and pupils' understanding of       reading.
Their changed practice included talk-based activities, validation       of textual diversity and recognition of the importance of readers'       identities.
One teacher noted, `I see reading differently now - I'm not       sure why I didn't recognise how social it is' (Cremin et al., 2009).
The External Evaluation Report (2008) identified significant impact on:            pupils' attitudes and attainment, e.g.
`61% of reading scores rose by         twice the usual rate over the year'       teachers' knowledge and use of children's literature, e.g.
`teachers'         views of pedagogy in the teaching of reading have undergone a seismic         shift'       local and national policies.
The core group of LAs systematically built on our `powerful model for       professional learning' (External Evaluation, 2008) developed by the       project and rolled it out locally (800 schools with approximately 36,000       pupils in each year group).
Sustained impact was noted, e.g.
by Kent's LA       Manager, `the project's roll-out has made a sustained difference to       fostering reading for pleasure right across the authority' (2012).
The External Evaluation recognised that by maximising extensive       face-to-face and virtual networks, the project's recommendations shaped       policy and practice, locally and nationally.
For example, Phases II and       III of the Building Communities work were embedded in the PNS training for       the national team of Literacy Consultants (approximately 550, in both 2009       and 2010).
Supported by the project's Professional Development Guide       (funded by the PNS), several LAs mirrored the approach (e.g.
Gloucestershire, Hampshire, Lancashire).
Significantly, the findings were       presented and integrated into the PNS ITE training for higher education       lecturers nationally (2009 and 2011).
As a result, eight university ITE       courses ran modules developed from the model, promoting wider knowledge of       children's literature and reading for pleasure pedagogy.
Both PNS consultants and ITE lecturers were provided with the project       outputs (1, 2), the second of which was awarded the Wiley Blackwell       Research Award (2009) and became a Literacy Journal Top Ten       Download 2009-12.
The work was also profiled on government and       professional websites (e.g.
DCSF, Welsh government and International       Reading Association).
The PI has advised on establishing similar projects       with ITE students and teachers in five countries.
Project recommendations have featured in leading practitioner magazines       (e.g.
Scholastic), media (e.g.
TES, Guardian), and       professional conferences (28 keynotes, e.g.
National Union of Teachers)       reaching 7500 practitioners in the UK and internationally.
The research resulted in the UKLA Children's Book Awards (2008 onwards),       uniquely judged by teachers and shadowed by approximately 500 ITE students       in 19 universities.
Our findings influenced the aims and selection       criteria for this award.
Oxford University Press has employed Cremin as a       consultant over two years to build the project's insights into an       extensive online reading resource (available March 2014).
Findings have       influenced the design of the site, for example, text recommendations and       strategies for developing classroom practices.
The research influenced national policy, which now foregrounds reading       for pleasure.
The team presented at policy seminars at the Department for       Children, Schools and Families (DCSF) and the DCSF English Board (both       2009).
The impoverished professional knowledge of poets for children,       identified in Phase I, influenced the creation of the strategic UK Poetry       Summit and informed the Ofsted poetry review.
The research formed a focus for three Qualifications and Curriculum       Development Agency conferences in 2009 and influenced the current       government's position on wider reading.
Cremin was invited by the       Department for Education to lead a National College for School Leadership       and Management e-discussion on reading for pleasure (17/06/11-4/07/11), to       join the National College working party contributing to the draft reading       curriculum, and to be an expert witness at the All- Party Parliamentary       Commission on Boys' Reading (2012).
The research is extensively quoted in       the Commission's report, the Government's Education Standards Research       Team's Research Evidence on Reading for Pleasure (2012) and       reflected in Ofsted`s Excellence in English (2012).
Exploring multimedia reading, the Our Story app was second       in the Top Ten Free Apps when launched (2011).
It has been used with       children aged from 3 to 13 years in diverse settings.
Examples include       supporting literacy in Gaelic medium nurseries in Scotland, reading       engagement in a Nottinghamshire Pupil Referral Unit and storytelling       amongst children and parents in a Haringey community project.
Adopted by professionals in UK, Japan, Spain and Slovakia, the app has       been employed for history and literacy, with Milton Keynes practitioners       appraising it and recommending features for inclusion in the second       version.
A new version of the app based on their feedback delivers an       improved user interface and functionality.
Evaluation of this work       indicates it is changing teachers' conceptualisations of multimedia       reading and influencing children's confidence and enthusiasm as readers.
