     The UKPDS publications are landmark studies in the treatment of type 2       diabetes.
They have influenced diabetes treatment guidelines and standards       of care worldwide7,8, leading to earlier and more effective       therapy globally for people with diabetes.
Impacting clinical guidelines     References to UKPDS publications can be found in virtually all       evidence-based international guidelines9, including the UK       National Institute for Clinical Excellence Guidelines10,       International Diabetes Federation Global Guidelines8, British       Columbia Guidelines11, and the Australian National Health and       Medical Research Council Guidelines for Blood Glucose Control in Type 2       Diabetes12.
Each of these guidelines reflect UKPDS findings by       recommending intensive glucose control and tight blood pressure control       following the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, as well as the use of       metformin as the first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes.
In addition,       the first joint consensus guidelines from the American Diabetes       Association and European Association for the Study of Diabetes explicitly       state that metformin should be the foundation therapy, along with diet, in       patients with type 2 diabetes13.
These guidelines were also       based on evidence presented in the UKPDS.
As a result, metformin is now       the most commonly prescribed therapy for diabetes worldwide14,15.
Educating the medical community and the public     The UKPDS trial quickly became a staple in many of the tens of thousands       of continuing medical education programmes on type 2 diabetes and its       management since 1998.
The findings have been cited in educational       material aimed at healthcare professionals including nurses and       dieticians, and formed part of the information given to the public7.
Impact on patients     The complete impact of this study is impossible to quantify, however a       number of experts have given their opinion on the very large impact the       UKPDS trial has had on patients and the lives of those living with       diabetes.
For example, writing in the recently published `Understanding       Medical Research, the Studies that Shaped Medicine', Philip Home comments       that the UKPDS trial affects the lives of over 200 million people every       day16.
And in his paper in Diabetic Medicine Genuth       writes that the UKPDS has contributed to the slow overall global trend of       decreasing HbA1c levels -a measure of the average amount of       sugar in the blood - of treated diabetic patients7.
Given its influence on the development of guidelines, clinical education       and the thinking of healthcare professionals, Philip Home, this time       writing in Diabetic Medicine, concludes that "by inference it must       be responsible for a significant part of the improvement in health       outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes in the last decade"9.
It is likely that the impact of UKPDS is not yet fully realised.
Data from       the uniquely valuable cohort of patients in this study are likely to yield       even more insights into diabetes, complications and benefits of treatment       in the years to come7.
