     The Oxford Scores have transformed the assessment of orthopaedic surgical       outcomes worldwide       and are being used in the United Kingdom and abroad to influence       department of health policy and       guidelines.
Clinical Use and Outcomes       In April 2009 the UK National Health Service (NHS) adopted the Oxford       Scores for use by the       Department of Health in all NHS Hospitals, to monitor hip and knee       replacement operations7.
In       2012 the National Joint Registry for England and Wales incorporated the       use of the Oxford       Shoulder Score in their national guidance for data collection8.
A number of private providers also       use the Oxford Scores to monitor quality9.
Long-term outcome       studies linking data from National       Joint Registries to the Oxford Scores have demonstrated that approximately       20% of patients are       dissatisfied with joint replacement surgery due to persistent pain.
In       addition, around 10% have       some functional deficit.
This is often in the absence of any technical       problems with the surgery or       the implant requiring revision surgery10.
In a cost-benefit study of the Oxford Knee Scores in 2009, clinicians       from the South West London       Elective Orthopedic Center, Surrey, UK reported that the Oxford Knee       Scores had a 98% response       rate from patients.
The paper states: "The OKS is a short, practical,         and easy to use patient-based         questionnaire with good validity and a high completion rate.
In our         study, at 2 years, the response         rate for Oxford questionnaire was 98%.
It eliminates inter-observer         error making it a reliable         questionnaire" 11.
In a large-scale independent study from Lund University Hospital in       Sweden, the Oxford Scores       were ranked as the best disease/site-specific PROM for assessing outcome       of arthroplasty12.
International Use       Licensed by Isis Innovation (a subsidiary of the University of Oxford,       which commercialises       intellectual property arising from academic research within the       University), the Oxford Scores have       been translated into 15 languages and are now available for use worldwide.
They are currently       available from Isis Innovation in: Polish, Finnish, Korean, Russian,       Spanish, Chinese, Danish,       French, Farsi, Japanese, Dutch, Portugese, Swedish, German and Turkish.
Internationally,       governments and departments of health have adopted the Oxford Scores to       monitor the outcome       and effectiveness of orthopaedic surgical procedures, particularly joint       replacements.
The use of       the Oxford Scores in New Zealand and Scandinavia has allowed early       identification (at 6 months       post-surgery) of poorly performing implants, which subsequently require       revision after 5 years.
The       early withdrawal of poorly performing implants significantly reduces the       number of joint       replacement failures and the attendant morbidity and cost13.
Clinical Guidance and Policy       The Oxford Hip and Knee Scores are routinely collected by the NHS,       following joint replacement       operations.
These PROMs are co-ordinated by the Department of Health,       while a number of       organisations are involved in the collection, processing, analysis and       reporting of PROMs data,       including providers, primary care trust commissioners, the NHS information       centres and       contractors7.
As a result of these routine collections, monthly       and annual reports are published to       inform patients, health care providers and commissioners on surgical       outcomes7.
The NHS also       provides guidance on the use and interpretation of the Oxford Scores,       including guides and video       clips for patients and the public7.
In addition, the Department       of Health and Health Care       Commissioners in the UK have adopted the Oxford Scores for use in       measuring surgical       outcomes14.
More recently there have been moves by some health       commissioners to use the       Oxford Scores as a threshold for decision making regarding referral for       surgery.
The University of       Oxford are working with health care planners and policy makers to       determine how appropriate the       use of the Oxford Scores will be as a decision aid for health       commissioners.
