     Since its introduction in 1998, around one million people worldwide have       been treated with the Phase 3 Oxford Knee.
The minimally invasive and more       reliable Phase 3 Oxford Knee, has dramatically improved the quality of       life for these patients by effectively curing pain and disability with       little risk of complication, or need for revision surgery3,7,8.
Improved Health and Quality of Life     Patients requiring knee replacements usually suffer from severe pain in       the knee, particularly when active; they also experience poor function,       stiffness, deformity and disability.
As a result, patients often find       everyday activities difficult.
Following implantation of a Phase 3 Oxford       Knee these symptoms are significantly improved and often cured, allowing       patients to return to their normal lifestyles3,4.
The elderly       can retain their independence, the young can return to work, and active       sportspeople &#8212; who often suffer most from knee injury and ineffective knee       replacements &#8212; can remain active.
Without the availability of the Phase 3 Oxford Knee most patients would       have previously received a TKR, which requires the whole knee to be       replaced rather than just the damaged compartment.
As a result of less       invasive surgery, complications occur much less frequently with the Phase       3 Oxford Knee, and when they do occur they are far less severe1.
For example, the rate of infection and blood clots in Phase 3 Oxford Knee       implants is approximately half compared to the TKR.
During the first three       months after knee replacement mortality rates (adjusted hazard ratio)       after UKR (such as the Oxford Knee) are around three times less than after       TKR.
The recovery after the operation is also around three times faster       with UKR, therefore patients can return home earlier.
Following implantation of the Phase 3 Oxford Knee, the kinematics of the       knee is virtually normal, in comparison to very abnormal kinematics after       TKR.
As a result, the Phase 3 Oxford Knee offers a better range of       movement and improved function, particularly with demanding activities1,7.
Furthermore, if problems arise following Oxford Knee surgery it is much       easier to convert the replacement to a TKR, than it is to revise a TKR.
With updates constantly being implemented, such as the introduction of the       cementless Oxford Knee these results are improving.
Data from the New       Zealand, and England and Wales, National Registers show that the recent       introduction of the cementless Oxford Knee has halved the need for       revision9,10.
The research from the University of Oxford and other groups, showing the       advantages of the Phase 3 Oxford Knee over fixed bearing UKR and TKR, has       contributed to the wider use of the Oxford Knee7,11.
Treatment       options for young active patients with arthritis have been limited in the       past because TKR does not tend to allow patients to be very active,       similarly to fixed bearing UKRs, they also have an increased failure rate.
In contrast, the Phase 3 Oxford Knee allows patients to achieve high       levels of activity, without significantly increasing the failure rate6.
The high failure rate of UKR has also prevented obese patients from       receiving a knee replacement, however, as shown by the Murray group,       obesity does not compromise the outcome or increase the failure rate of       the Phase 3 Oxford Knee6.
Commercial &amp; Financial Outcome     As a result of its high performance, the Phase 3 Oxford Knee is now       dominating the UKR market.
In 2011, the National Joint Registry for       England and Wales reported that the Oxford Knee was used in 70-80% of       cases between 2003 and 20109.
Other National Joint Registers       such as that from New Zealand also show the high numbers of Oxford Knees       being implanted10.
As reported by The National Joint Registry in 2011, the enhanced speed of       recovery associated with the Phase 3 Oxford Knee has led to patients being       discharged (on average) two days earlier than those receiving TKR9.
An increasing number of clinical centres around the world are now treating       Phase 3 Oxford Knee patients as day cases, resulting in greater cost       savings for patients, the NHS, and health care providers9,12.
