     By demonstrating the frequency, the severity, and the risk factors for       pseudotumours related to       MoM hip replacements (MoMHR), this research has led to dramatic changes in       clinical practice       and guidelines nationally and internationally.
As a result, implantation       of MoM replacements has       now virtually ceased.
For those already implanted, routine surveillance is       recommended and all       patients with problems, including mild complaints, are investigated in       detail.
Early revision is       encouraged to prevent significant soft tissue damage.
This has had a       significant impact on patient       health, clinical guidelines and the orthopaedic industry.
Health and Patient Care     The identification of pseudotumours and the severe problems that they can       cause after MoM hip       replacement has led to a dramatic reduction in the use of these implants.
Data from the National       Joint Registry for England and Wales has shown that the use of MoM       resurfacing halved between       2008 and 2010, with 40% of men under 55 having MoMHR in 2008, in       comparison to 20% in 2010.
It is estimated that this number has halved again in recent years7.
The Arthritis Research UK       website provides information on hip resurfacing from experts, and states       that although metal-on-       metal hip replacements are still being implanted, predominately in young       men under the age of 50,       their general use has reduced "very sharply" in the UK in recent years8.
The full scale of the problem, identified by Professor Murray's team       almost seven years ago is now       clearly reflected by the National Joint Registry for England and Wales7       and other registries12, which       all show the very high failure rates of MoM replacements.
These failures       are associated with       considerable patient suffering and expense to the health service.
Guidelines and Policy     On the basis of the University of Oxford's research, and the research of       other groups that have       followed its lead, strong recommendations have been issued regarding the       use of MoM       replacements in the UK.
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory       Agency (MHRA) has       issued numerous Medical Device alerts for various MoM implants.
In       February 2012 MHRA       advised that all patients with metal-on-metal hips should be followed up       annually for five years9.
This Medical Device alert was replaced in June 2012, with updated       recommendations stating that       all patients with MoMHR should be followed up "annually for the life of       the implant"10.
The British Orthopaedic Association summarised the status of MoMHR in       2011, highlighting the       problems of MoM replacements and supporting recommendations to follow up       MoMHR and restrict       its use11.
The National Joint Registry for England and Wales       also highlights the high failure rate of       MoMHR7.
Similar guidance has also been issued internationally.
The Australian       Orthopaedic Association       National Joint Replacement Registry, highlights the high failure rate of       MoMHR in its Hip and Knee       Arthroplasty 2011 Annual Report12.
The Canadian Orthopaedic       Association (COA) also issued       similar recommendations in February 201113.
In the United       States, the Food and Drug       Administration (FDA) also highlighted the safety risks associated with       MoMHR, and made       recommendations on patient monitoring14.
Industry Withdrawals     DePuy, one of the largest implant manufactures for MoMHR, issued a       voluntary recall of their       Articular Surface Replacement ASR&#8482; MOM Hip System in August 2010, and are       funding revisions       of this implant15.
They and other companies are also involved       in multi-billion dollar lawsuits16.
