     Key impact: Incorporating prognostic information in clinical care for         back pain     The prognostic information identified by our research, particularly       information about the course of back pain and key predictors of poor       outcome, has been incorporated into Evidence Based Medicine resources: BMJ       Best Practice, e-Guidelines; UpToDate; and NICE Clinical Knowledge       Summaries in the UK [1] and internationally.[e.g.
2] Our novel approach to       bringing together key predictors of outcome in a brief prognostic       screening tool (STarTBack Tool) has been adopted by at least 85 clinical       services across the world to classify and inform patients regarding the       likely course of their symptoms.[e.g.
3,4] We have developed a website (www.keele.ac.uk/sbst/) including       free and open access to the tool, and information to encourage       implementation into clinical practice.
The website has been accessed by       30,000 unique visitors since inception in 2009.
Research groups in       Denmark, Sweden and the USA are collaborating with our team to test its       generalizability to other patient populations and healthcare settings,       and its use in children with back pain.
Use of the tool to identify       high-risk patients has been recommended by key professional groups; the       Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP Online MSK Module) [5];       Department of Health National Spinal Taskforce [6]; British Pain Society       (2013); and other national guidelines.
Key impact: Implementing psychosocial approaches in primary care for         back pain     We pioneered the application of psychosocial approaches to chronic pain       management, on the basis of our findings that psychosocial factors are       predictors and consequences of chronic pain.
These approaches were       developed by specialist teams of psychologists and physiotherapists, and       applied more broadly to primary care.
Our back pain trial (Hay et al.
2005) showed that our training and mentoring programme enable primary care       physiotherapists to successfully deliver psychologically informed       physiotherapy, encouraging patients to alter unhelpful attitudes and pain-       related fears, increasing activity, and supporting self-management and       return-to-work.
By integrating these research findings into routine health       services, we have ensured more immediate improvements in the care provided       for back pain patients.
Our staff have led and collaborated on the       development of back pain and chronic pain management (`IMPACT') services,       which continue to offer enhanced approaches to pain management.
In 2013       the IMPACT service won the national Care Integration Award for pain       management.
Since 2007 we have trained over 230 healthcare professionals       from the UK, Denmark, Australia, Germany, USA and Ireland to adopt and       deliver psychologically informed physiotherapy, and have developed a       cascade training model for wider dissemination.
Healthcare services [e.g.
7] now incorporate such models of care.
This pioneering work contributed       substantially to the Centre's receipt of the Queen's Anniversary Prize       (2009).
Key impact: Providing a novel cost-effective model of stratified care         for back pain     In a randomised trial and impact study, we combined our expertise in       prognostic stratification with matched interventions to produce a new       model of stratified care for back pain.
This demonstrated improved patient       outcomes and reduced work loss compared to current best care, together       with cost savings for the NHS.
Public and professional awareness of the       benefits of stratified care has been increased via radio and patient       magazines (BBC Health News Sept 2011, Arthritis Today October 2011) and       professional forums (Frontline CSP Sept 2011, RCGP Conference 2012, RCGP       on line training).
We held workshops with leading UK musculoskeletal       clinicians in November 2009 and June 2012, plus a conference in April 2012       with &gt;120 delegates, including representatives from the Department of       Health, professional bodies and key charities, leading to adoption of the       StarTBack approach in at least 23 healthcare organisations.
Change in       healthcare delivery and patient outcome has been achieved through our team       working with expert groups to revise the Department of Health's Any       Qualified Provider documentation (March 2012) and the Map of Medicine care       pathway for back pain (April 2012)[8], which provide evidence-based       guidance and clinical decision support at the point of care, and enable       commissioners to develop efficient and effective development of new       services.
Through the Keele Primary Care Musculoskeletal Research       Consortium, considered a national exemplar model for academic- healthcare       collaboration, we have facilitated implementation of the stratified care       model within community physiotherapy services in Cheshire and       Staffordshire.
It has been incorporated into commissioning plans for Vale       Royal, South Cheshire, North Staffordshire and Stoke Clinical       Commissioning Groups, as part of General Practice QP plans, service       providers QiPP initiatives and commissioning CQUIN targets [9], which       allows for the new approach to become sustainable and serve as good       practice model for the wider NHS.
Multiple services in the UK have changed       their clinical pathways to implement stratified care [e.g.
4,7].
Internationally, prognostic stratification in patients with back pain has       been advocated on government websites, recommended in international       guidelines [e.g.
10], and several healthcare organisations are       adopting stratified care for back pain (e.g.
Fairview Healthcare,       Minnesota and Intermountain Healthcare, Utah).
