     Our research on biological and cell therapy in orthopaedics has had       direct impact on health, economics, public policy, practitioners and       professional services.
Impacts on health     More than 400 patients had cell therapy in our clinics to treat their       cartilage defects (Ref 1).
The treatment gave a marked improvement in the       condition in most patients, with a beneficial effect sustained for more       than eight years (Ref 2).
This suggests that cell therapy can delay the       progression of osteoarthritis long enough to have a real impact on future       health costs (Ref 2).
A further 150,000 patients worldwide have benefited from our research on       biological therapies (Ref 3).
The composite resorbable interference screw,       developed with Biocomposites Ltd (Keele, UK), has benefited over 60,000       patients worldwide through Stryker (Biosteon interference screw),       Arthrocare (Bilok interference screw) and Biocomposites (Bilok and       Biosteon interference screw).
Use of this screw in anterior cruciate       ligament reconstruction leads to a measurable improvement in their       condition (Ref 4).
Finally, over 4000 patients have benefited from our       research on bone substitute materials (Ref 3), with Biocomposites Ltd       (Keele, UK), distributed as Allogran by Endo Plus and Biocomposites.
It       gives long-term benefits to patients equivalent to human allograft bone,       without the associated infection risks (Ref 4).
Economic impacts     Worldwide sales of 125,000 composite resorbable interference screws       (Bilok, Biosteon) are reported with an associated turnover of almost       $30,000,000 (Ref 3).
In addition, over 4000 units of Allogran have been       sold with an associated turnover of &#163;450,000 (Ref 3).
Sales from MICA       Biosystems are just beginning (&#163;60,000 as of 2013) (Ref 3) with a plan for       expansion to worldwide distribution over the next 5 years (MICA MFB)     Impacts on public policy     We contributed to the advice and guidance from the National Institute for       Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) on Autologous Chondrocyte       Implantation (ACI).
For the present guideline (Ref 5), we contributed       evidence, as both a manufacturer, via our GMP-licensed lab, OsCell, and as       a commentator in the form of the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic       Hospital.
For the coming guideline (expected in 2014), our GMP laboratory       will again contribute evidence (Ref 5).
Our research has put us in a position to contribute to public policy by       informing the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee on the UK       position on Regenerative Medicine (Ref 6).
From October 2012 to February       2013, the House of Lords Committee held evidence sessions, to which       members of our team (Roberts and our EPSRC Manufacturing Centre with       Loughborough) contributed evidence on behalf of Arthritis Research UK and       EPSRC.
The report from the House of Lords committee has led to actions       from the government on Regenerative Medicine (Ref 6).
Our research has also led to one of our team (Prof. El Haj) to advise to       the Focus Group for the Committee for Advanced Therapies (CAT) of the       European Medicines Agency (EMA), responsible for assessing the quality,       safety and efficacy of advanced-therapy medicinal products (ATMPs) and       following scientific developments in the field (Ref 6).
Our impact into policy has contributed on a Global scale with       participation (Prof El Haj) in the 2013 Regenerative Medicine World Summit       in China, a discussion forum for world leaders in regenerative medicine to       debate the barrier to adoption in regenerative medicine (Ref 7).
Impact on practitioners and professional services     Our research on Cell Therapies for Orthopaedics has led to a team member       (Prof. Roberts) being on the committee of the International Cartilage       Repair Society (ICRS) that has developed the ICRS II Visual Assessment       Scale histology scoring system for assessing the quality of human       cartilage repair (Ref 8).
The scoring system is now part of the ICRS       guidelines for the design and conduct of clinical studies in articular       cartilage repair (Ref 8) and is currently being used in at least five       randomized clinical trials (Ref 9).
Members of the Keele group have been in key positions within       International societies, Scientific Advisory Boards and Research council       advisory teams in this area: President of the UK Tissue and Cell       Engineering Society (2004-9), European Chair for the International Society       for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (2012-2016), Executive       Board of International Cartilage Repair Society (2006-2010), UKRC Stem       Cell Advisory Board (2008-2011), Regenerative Medicine Advocacy Group       (2009-), Academic Advisory Board of Institute of Physics and Engineering       in Medicine (2008-), EPSRC Strategic Advisory Teams in Cross-disciplinary       Interface, Healthcare and on the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network, MRC       College of Experts, MRC Developmental Pathway and Clinical Science Funding       Panel, BBSRC Bioscience Industry Working Group, Deputy Chair of the BBSRC       Bioscience and Biotechnology Panel.
