     &#8226; Development of movement analysis technology     The availability of video vector technology enabled ORLAU to be a pioneer       in the field.
This resulted in the establishment of the first       comprehensive gait analysis service in the UK.
The technology allowed       existing interventions, such as plastic Ankle Foot Orthoses (AFOs) to be       biomechanically aligned, or `tuned'.
Video vector technology has       only been introduced to the market in the last decade or so (e.g.
Templo       system, Contemplas (www.contemplas.com/motion_analysis_templo.aspx)).
A major pressure to develop these technologies has come from an       understanding of the need to tune AFOs, an insight, whilst not originating       in ORLAU, was significantly developed by ORLAU clinical teams1 (source         a).
ORLAU has been a leading contributor to the development of both national       and international practice and education in movement analysis.
ORLAU       hosted the first meeting of the ESMAC Society (European Society of       Movement Analysis for Adults and Children) (source b) and was a       founder member of CMAS (Clinical Movement Analysis Society, UK) (source c) 	  and will host its 13th (2014) Annual Scientific       Meeting.
ORLAU has continued to significantly contribute to the movement       analysis community with ORLAU staff chairing both the committee and the       standards groups of CMAS.
ORLAU staff played a significant role in the       development of standards with Dr Caroline Stewart overseeing the       introduction of the UK's first accreditation programme for gait       laboratories (source c).
&#8226; Human gait analysis     Movement analysis research has had an impact on both clinical services       and the establishment of significant international collaborations2,3.
One key area has been the construction of computer models of the human       musculoskeletal system.
These models are used at every clinical review of       patients going through the ORLAU gait laboratory in order to understand       the length of their hamstring muscles and consequent need for surgery.
The       research has led to an overall reduction in the need for certain muscle       lengthening procedures in children with cerebral palsy (source d).
&#8226; New Novel clinical services     The development of a specialist movement analysis service has allowed       ORLAU to be innovative in the introduction of new clinical procedures, in       particular the orthopaedic management of children with cerebral palsy (source       e) and other severely disabled neurological patients (source f).
ORLAU/RJAH was responsible for the introduction of Selective Dorsal       Rhizotomy (SDR) to the UK.
The selection criteria for SDR developed by       Cole et al 20074 has since been embedded in service provision       within ORLAU and been presented internationally.
In recognition of the       work carried out by ORLAU the Director has been invited as an External       Adviser to the NICE Clinical Guideline 145 (source g).
ORLAU staff       have also provided input to the development of NICE guidance       (Interventional Procedures 195 (2006) and 373 (2010), source h)       and are currently participating in the planning of national commissioning       planning for SDR services.
&#8226; New orthotic devices     ORLAU continues to deliver clinical services supplying novel devices       developed by the rehabilitation engineering team.
Commercialisation has       occurred through licensing to Otto Bock (source i).
The Swivel       Walker and the Parawalker allow patients with little or no active lower       limb muscle power to mobilise in a normal upright posture.
The Standing       Frame also allows patients to be supported in weight bearing.
ORLAU       records show around 90 standing frames are being produced for patients       every year.
An upright posture has many functional, social and       physiological benefits.
The Swivel walker won a Design Council Award in       1981.
The only commercially available swivel walkers are based on the       designs originating from the original research from ORLAU.
Joint       deformities (contractures) are common secondary complications in patients       with severe levels of disability.
Research has demonstrated that the       treatment has the ability to give significant clinical benefit and this is       reflected in the number of devices sold (1760).
&#8226; General impacts of the work described     ORLAU's specialist work has led to a number of requests to run training       courses.
Over the years courses have been run in specialist orthotic       devices and in gait analysis.
ORLAU staff support the training of       specialist registrar training in orthopaedics and participating in FRCS       preparation courses.
Caroline Stewart, Neil Postans and Andrew Roberts       have all been involved in teaching on ESMAC's European Gait Analysis       course (source j), an annual event associated with the European       conference.
