     The live performance and the DVD of St Pancreas reached beyond       the academic community by both enhancing public understanding of diabetes       and challenging some of the assumptions about the condition.
The principal       user groups who benefited were diabetes sufferers, their families and       carers, diabetes organisations, healthcare professionals and charities.
Additionally, stand-up comedy culture &#8212; fellow comedians, critics, and       audiences as a central part of this community &#8212; benefited from the work's       exploratory and challenging expansion of the genre's accepted conventions.
Diabetes sufferers and their families, and the public understanding           of diabetes     By July 2013, 292 copies of the DVD Saint Pancreas had been sold       through the University of Kent.
Order addresses show a distribution across       the UK and some internationally.
The DVD was also acquired by the British       Library, by more than ten Universities (other than Kent), and by Diabetes       UK.
Further free copies have been made available to journalists as well as       professional comedians.
Many of these copies will have been seen by       multiple viewers.
The show and DVD were reviewed in The Guardian by William Cook,       who wrote that despite its `highly unlikely subject for comedy,' the show       was `a tender and uplifting monologue that's surprisingly funny' [6].
Furthermore, the DVD received positive responses from specialist diabetes       publications [7, 9].
The responses captured in the audience interviews published on the DVD       itself are indicative of this type of response, and thus of the       significance of the show's impact.
Double also received numerous personal       letters from parents of children with diabetes suggesting that the sharing       of experiences was valuable to them, offering a sense of relief and       validation [1].
For example, one parent comments that the show       `made me feel less alone...someone else out there "gets it."'
Another       wrote that `Watching Saint Pancreas allowed us to have a good       laugh with someone who truly understood what living with diabetes is       really like.
It was very cathartic but also made us feel that we were a       part of something with other families.
Instead of feeling that our family       life was different and we had to avoid talking about diabetes too much, we       felt more normal' [2].
The diabetes community: professional healthcare and charity           organisations     The release of the DVD and the further dissemination of its underpinning       research, both scholarly and practice-based, led to an invitation to       Double from the leading charity, Diabetes         UK, to write an official blog for their website.
Joe Freeman,       Digital Engagement Manager at Diabetes UK comments in an email to Oliver       Double (18.10.11) that `reactions to what you've written have been more       varied and frequent than those on posts from other bloggers... Parents of       children with diabetes seem to relate well to what you write ... and your       posts are the most popular on the site' [3].
To end of July 2013,       30 blogs have generated a total of 15,319 unique views and Double's posts       have been shared 1437 times on Facebook and 150 times on Twitter.
Double's activities with Diabetes UK in turn led to invitations to       perform St Pancreas at key national and international conferences       and events, aimed at diabetes sufferers, their families and professionals.
These included the Friends for Life family conferences organised       by the US-based NGO Children with Diabetes (CWD) in Windsor, UK       (2010 and 2012), Orlando, Florida (2011 and 2012), and Glasgow, UK (2013)       [9,10].
Double's stand-up comedy show was also performed at the       Diabetes Wellness Day in Greenwich, UK (2011), organised by the UK Charity         Diabetes Research and Wellness Foundation (DRWF), and at the Type 1       Discovery Evening in London, UK (2013), organised by the leading       charitable funder of diabetes research, the Juvenile Diabetes Research         Foundation (JDRF).
Through these routes, the show has been seen, as       of July 2013, by approximately 4,710 live audience members.
Jeff Hitchcock, founder and president of CWD, explains why stand-up       comedy in general is a valuable activity for diabetes organisations, and       the benefit of Double's performance in particular: `Humour makes the       difficult possible...when you are on stage...we are free from the burden       of the challenge before us, even if just for the few minutes of your       performance' [4].
St Pancreas has also created direct financial charitable benefit       as each DVD sale generates a donation to JDRF, totalling by July 2013       &#163;541.60, and an additional &#163;286.80 of donations from ticket sales for the       live performance.
Stand-up comedy culture     The research had an impact within the stand-up comedy community in terms       of its distinctive and challenging contribution to the development of the       form.
This has been evidenced by, for example, responses from significant       comedians in the field, including Arthur Smith and Mark Thomas [7, 8].
Thomas' acclaimed 2012 one-man show Bravo Figaro tackled his       experiences dealing with his father's dementia with a similar blend of       comedy and empathy.
Thomas wrote to Double to confirm that:     The important thing with [St Pancreas] is that it deals         with a medical subject         that is not often an area of comedy.
This allows people to laugh at the         situations people with these issues find themselves, which makes it (for         want         of a better phrase) easier to talk about.
It helps break through the         stigmas of         health being talked about by professionals in medical terms or lay         people in         hushed and worried tones [8].
The impact of Double's St Pancreas project therefore can be seen       to range from its pragmatic and inspirational value to diabetes       professionals and organizations; to its beneficial role as a source of       relief and validation to individuals and families affected by diabetes; to       its cultural significance in helping to broaden the thematic range of       stand-up comedy; and through all of this, to its role in deepening public       understanding of type 1 diabetes.
