     The Keele partner company Forensic Pathways Limited (FPL) provides       digital forensic services to a range of bodies including police forces       internationally.
Our research has developed algorithms which can be used       to assist in the identification of the device source of evidential images.
FPL had a product called Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) with could       successfully identify whether a digital image came from a particular       digital camera, or if a particular digital camera created a particular       digital image, for dedicated cameras.
However, increasingly mobile phone       cameras are replacing such dedicated cameras in society as a whole.
The       construction quality, proximity of noise- generating elements, and high       compression ratios used in mobile phones makes this a much more       challenging problem, rendering the existing method far less effective, and       producing a high number of both false positives and true negatives.
Our       technique provides a more sensitive and consistently reliable method,       enabling their product to be used for these now much more common devices.
This is a very significant tool in the armoury of those fighting a diverse       range of crimes but notably terrorism, paedophile rings and civil unrest.
The research is now embodied in FPL's products.
Criminal Records Direct Ltd. (formerly Assuramed Ltd.) conduct criminal       record checks (CRCs) for the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and so deal       with highly sensitive data.
They required a simple but effective method of       authenticating on-line users of their systems.
They approached us looking       for a more secure approach than password distribution, that could be       rolled-out securely without relying on the distribution of authentication       devices (which could constitute a security risk).
Through an initial INDEX       award and a subsequent AWM Proof of Concept Award, we developed a multi-       factor authentication system utilising a biometrically generated graphical       password.
Essentially we identified concealed variations in drawing which       were idiosyncratic to particular users.
This became core to CRD's       security-sensitive online system and enabled them to meet the Criminal       Record Bureau's stringent security requirements to run online, which in       turn enabled CRD to quadruple their turnover in three years.
There has       been no breach of their security systems to date, which for a small       company is a significant achievement.
The ability for criminal record       checks to be carried out securely online is a vast improvement on the       previous paper-based system which was both too slow for purpose (taking       weeks or months for a check to be undertaken) and inherently insecure,       leaving key posts unfilled in the health care industries and education       sector.
The success of the applications led to the company's acquisition       by GB Group PLC for &#163;1.6 million in June 2013.
