     In 2000 the National Cancer Plan was developed to address the problem of       poor UK cancer survival rates.
A major part of the subsequent reform was       the national upgrade in radiotherapy linear accelerator provision: the       machines that are used to kill cancer cells by damaging their DNA but       which, ahead of this upgrade, used low-accuracy high-energy radiation that       tended to damage neighbouring healthy cells as well as cancer cells.
Ultimately the new machines will be rolled out into every cancer treatment       centre in the UK.
These new machines provide significantly higher       resolution radiation targeting of malignant tumours, with multiple       low-power beams focusing on the target tumour, providing a high dose where       the beams converge but only a low dose along the path of individual beams,       thus minimising damage to healthy tissue near the tumour.
It is therefore       essential that the introduction of these new machines is accompanied by       new equally-accurate localisation algorithms for the processing of the       corresponding CT scans, in order to direct the targeting at the diseased       tissues rather than neighbouring healthy organs.
Ultimately this technology will apply to all cancers but the focus for       the impact of the first stage of the research outlined in section 2 was to       apply it to prostate cancer - the third biggest killer, behind lung and       breast cancer, and the hardest to diagnose and target.
Keele's Computer       Science (CS) researchers applied the research outputs from stage one to       this problem by working with the team of oncologists, radiologists and       radiation physicists at the new state-of-the-art Cancer Centre at the       University Hospital of North Staffordshire (UHNS, NHS Foundation Trust).
The UHNS team provided raw volumetric CT scan sets from patient data,       which the CS researchers processed using the new multiscale algorithms.
The algorithms were judged by the team of specialists to be able to       produce consistently correct identification of tissue boundaries (and so       tumour location for targeting) even where the team themselves had produced       different boundary identifications on separate attempts to delineate the       same tissue [2].
This has led to a 50-patient clinical trial, which       started in summer 2011 and has to date (with circa 70% completion)       produced very promising results.
As a secondary benefit (explored in a       related clinical trial) patients are being shown the output boundaries (in       3D) from the algorithms superimposed on the raw CT scans in order to best       depict the levels of certainty and uncertainty involved and so fully       involve them in the decision making process.
This related clinical trial       was completed in 2012 and the facility is now part of the cancer treatment       service (Radiotherapy Brachytherapy) available to patients; see       section 5 for online reference.
The Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic Hospital at Oswestry (RJAH,       NHS Foundation Trust) has used cell therapy (tissue engineering) to treat       patients with cartilage injuries and associated diseases (including       arthritis) for over a decade, by transplanting cells that make new       cartilage to replace that which is damaged or missing.
Based on the second stage of the research outlined in section 2 above,       RJAH provided historical sets of biopsy images from patients with varying       degrees of successful cartilage growth.
The historical assessment of       quality has involved invasive surgical techniques, is extremely slow,       lacks objectivity, is costly, and is above all liable to human error.
The       CS researchers applied their new multiscale fractal algorithms to       characterise the quality of transplanted cartilage cell growth from       post-operative biopsies, producing a quantitative measure of cell quality       that matched the assessment of domain experts [3].
By then applying       similar algorithms to assess cartilage growth in live cell laboratory       based cultures (currently a highly labour intensive process), the aim is       now to develop large-scale yet patient-specific cartilage generation       capability.
A three-way MRC-funded clinical trial has received ethical       approval and is now underway.
To facilitate in vitro measurement of stem cell culture development over       an extended period (weeks), it is necessary not only to have algorithms to       produce the above measurements, but also to accurately track and focus on       target cells non-invasively.
The conventional Laplacian-based techniques       for this were known to be inaccurate.
The CS researchers developed their       new algorithms to improve not just the tracking of cells but also the       auto-focus method used by the high throughput 3D phase contrast microscopy       platform.
We are now working toward incorporating such improvements into       the equipment of the company that produces this platform (CM Technologies       Ltd, previously Chip-Man Technologies Ltd): see [5] and the BBSRC award in       section 3.
