     Recognising the public interest in extra-solar planets we have aimed to       maximise the impact of WASP discoveries at the international, national and       local level.
An STFC press release about the first Keele-led, WASP-South       planets (published 2008) led to CNN and Time magazine listing the       discovery in their "Top ten science discoveries" of the year.
As a result       our discoveries were mentioned by then Prime Minister Gordon Brown as an       example of "British scientists continuously breaking new ground" in the       2009 Romanes lecture at Oxford, on British science policy.
A 2009 Nature press release about WASP-18 (the most intense planet-star       tidal interaction) led to an Associated Press article and was widely       published in British, European and US newspapers (e.g.
The Independent,       The Times, The Guardian), and featured on 62 internet websites including       the BBC News front page.
A 2010 STFC press release on WASP-17 (the first       planet in a retrograde orbit) was reported in over 20 newspapers worldwide       including The Independent, Guardian, New York Times, LA Times, and a       Brazilian newspaper, and again featured on over 50 websites including the       BBC News.
An ESO press release in 2010 led to coverage across Europe,       including in The Times.
A 2011 Nature/NASA/STFC press release on the       "Carbon planet" WASP- 12 was widely reported in newspapers (e.g.
The       Times, Telegraph, LA Times, Time magazine) and over 60 internet websites.
Other newspaper coverage of WASP included a six-page feature on exoplanets       in The Sunday Times magazine (readership 2.5 million) April 8th 2012, an       article in the Wall Street Journal (Sept 2011), and an article in Time       Magazine (Dec 2010).
Keele astronomers have also been interviewed by BBC       Radio Wales, BBC Radio Five, and other stations including Colombian       National Public Radio.
Turning to television, WASP featured on BBC1's "Bang goes the Theory" and       "The Sky at Night" (both 2009), while an episode of BBC2's "Cosmos: A       Beginners Guide" with Adam Hart-Davis was centred on WASP.
In 2011 Brian       Cox's "Wonders of the Solar System" (BBC2, March 2011) featured a "visit"       to the WASP-8b as a high-gravity planet (simulated with a centrifuge); the       audience of 3.34 million was the highest on BBC2 that week.
In 2012 Jan 18th BBC2's "Stargazing Live" with Brian Cox centred on       exoplanets and featured WASP, including a live link-up to WASP-South and       an interview with a Keele postdoc.
Prof. Hellier acted as an advisor.
With       2.7m viewers Stargazing Live was the most-viewed BBC2 program that week.
The impact of such programs is demonstrated by the fact that Amazon.co.uk       reported a 500% increase in sales of telescopes that week.
In conjunction with the 2013 Stargazing Live, BBC1's Midlands Today       (audience 600,000) featured research by Midlands' Universities that had       appeared on Stargazing Live, and included an interview with Prof. Hellier.
Other TV programs featuring WASP discoveries are the Discovery Channel       programs made by Pioneer TV "Planets from Hell" (July 25 2012) and       "Extreme Orbits" (August 8 2012).
Prof. Hellier acted as an advisor for       these.
WASP-discovered exoplanets are now featuring in undergraduate-level       textbooks (e.g.
"Transiting Exoplanets", Haswell, 2010, CUP, and "The       exoplanet handbook", Perryman, CUP), popular-level books (e.g.
"Strange       new worlds: the hunt for alien planets and life beyond our solar system",       Jayawardhana, 2011, Princeton and "Exoplanets: finding, exploring and       understanding alien worlds", Kitchin, 2012, Springer) and even some       children's books (e.g.
"Exploring Exoplanets", Searchlight Books: What's       Amazing about Space?, 2012, and "The Alien Hunter's Handbook: How to Look       for Extraterrestrial Life", Kingfisher, 2012).
We have also promoted WASP science locally, recognising that many areas       of Stoke-on-Trent are deprived, and that such research can be an important       inspiration for local children to pursue science and to aim for       university.
We have featured in the local paper (The Evening Sentinel) on       seven occasions and on BBC Radio Stoke four times.
When doing so we       include invitations to Keele campus observatory, which is open to the       public twice weekly and on special occasions.
Over 500 visitors came       during each Stargazing Live week, where we link viewing planets through       our observatory's telescopes to Keele's WASP research.
In addition the       regular openings attract 1000 visitors per year, while we host many visits       from school and scout groups over a year.
We have three times run evening       classes on exoplanets for mature students, and, further, Keele's Science       Learning Centre has ten times run CPD courses for schoolteachers featuring       exoplanets and the WASP discoveries.
Recognising, however, that those attracted to Keele campus will be mostly       those who already have an interest in science, we have also developed an       outreach program taking WASP science into schools.
Funded by an STFC       Science in Society grant "An Exoplanetarium for Schools" (PI Rob Jeffries,       2011, &#163;6850), since Feb 2012 (up until July 2013) Keele's travelling       "exoplanetarium" has been seen by 5000 schoolchildren (ages 4-18; about       2800 from postcodes in the most disadvantaged two quintiles).
Overwhelmingly positive feedback from teachers, included comments such as       "The children loved it and learned lots - they were talking about it for       days!
"; "The reactions of ' fantastic' and 'the best thing ever in       science' were some of the pupils comments"; "A fabulous experience,       something that we could never convey in books or words to them"; "An       exciting and informative activity for all the children who were all       overwhelmed by the experience".
In evaluations 44/47 teachers said pupils       had benefited from the experience and 42/47 said they would book the       exoplanetarium again, while 65% of secondary students agreed that the       Exoplanetarium had made them "think about university as a future option"       (cf.
HE participation rates in Stoke-on-Trent being 23%, well below the       national average).
