     As clearly and specifically described in the comprehensive STFC 2008       publication The Social &amp; Economic Impact of the Daresbury SRS,       the impact of central facilities has not been restricted to the science       itself.
This publication states that "Impacts from the SRS include the       creation of knowledge, improved quality of life in the UK, the generation       and transfer of skills, improved competitiveness of industry, the       commercialisation of technology, financial effects and the creation of       jobs."
The input of many Keele staff to central facilities, particularly       the SRS and the ILL, has been in instrumentation, techniques, support, and       training, each of which impacts significantly at many economic and social       levels.
This publication also highlights the impact of Joint appointments       as an important aspect of the skills exchange between the SRS and host       Universities and in bringing.
science drivers and challenges to the SRS       from the Universities.
Keele University was central to this exchange,       providing a series of academics as joint appointments (including Greenhough,         Glover, Greenall, Stirling, Catlow, Fitch) from the first days in       1981 through to closure of the SRS in 2008.
The 2007 Research Councils UK report by PA consulting, "Study           on the economic impact of the Research Councils" has a section       specifically devoted to the impact of Protein Crystallography (PX) at the       SRS, where Keele led from day 1 through several Joint appointments and       subsequently Keele PhD students who moved to positions there and elsewhere       following graduation.
"At the heart of Central Facilities are the       development scientists and the user support staff, forming a focus for       serving and training a vast community of engineers, scientists, academics       and pharmaceutical companies."
The report details examples of the       contribution of PX at the SRS to drug discovery, citing the enzyme purine       nucleoside phosphorylase (teams from Alabama and Keele including Greenhough)       which provided a starting point to design new drugs to target diseases       such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and Crohn's       disease, one of which underwent clinical trial and was licensed to a major       pharmaceutical company.
The report adds that commercial users of the PX       facilities included 16 pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as       AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer and Astex Therapeutics.
The impact that Keele continues to have through Central Facilities and       current (Forsyth, Teixeira, Greenhough, Sule-Suso, Telling) past       (for example Myles, Langan) and future Keele researchers       (currently 12 Keele PhD students are engaged in projects utilising       Diamond, ILL, the ESRF, APS, SOLEIL) is huge.
The RCUK report by PA       confirms this by showing that "Structural biology and the way it is done       now would not be possible without the SRS and the subsequent development       of other sources.
Difficult proteins would not have been solved without       the improvements in technology and the speed of crystallographic structure       determination would be prohibitive."
This applies to the human C-reactive       protein structure, a landmark work in 1996 led by two still current Keele       staff (Shrive, Greenhough) and made possible by the SRS       following some 50 years of effort world wide.
Cited 190 times, it       continues to underline the impact of basic science on medical practice,       underpinned by widespread publicity ranging from blanket GP circulars       (print and video) to Newsweek.
This raised awareness, and the scientific       work itself, has contributed significantly to the subsequent debate       surrounding the molecule and its role in CVD and to the increased       importance of raised levels in the clinical setting, particularly for       at-risk patients.
The RCUK report by PA also confirms that       "the ribosome structure, a fundamental scientific breakthrough which may       lend itself to drug discovery, relied heavily on the ability to rapidly       screen crystals at the SRS".
This screening was carried out on stations       developed and supported by Keele staff.
While closure of the SRS in 2008 ended almost 30 years of pivotal Keele       involvement in the support, training and achievements of many thousands of       Daresbury users, with lasting impact on the "scientific, industrial and       skill base of the UK", the Keele impact then accelerated through leading       roles in the establishment of the next generation of central facilities       with many continuing to play key roles in training, advising and       transferring key skills and technology to these facilities.
The subsequent       and current senior roles at these new facilities continue to impact on a       global scale.
Keele has played, and continues to play through Forsyth and Teixeira,       a major role in the development, support and exploitation of neutron       scattering for the study of biological molecules and industrial materials,       impacting particularly on the pharmaceutical and polymer industries and       the training of the next generation of scientists with diverse and       essential skills for the workplace.
The 2012 STFC report on Neutron       scattering Materials research for modern life (STFC, 2012)       gives examples of the significant medical, social and economic impact that       neutron scattering science contributes to our lives, with the study of       biological molecules enabling "Multidisciplinary teams of medics,       physicists, materials scientists, chemists and engineers to come together       to make key breakthroughs in using materials in medicine".
Much of this       work has been made possible through the input and expertise of Keele       staff.
Major awards of over &#163;2m to Forsyth and Fuller with       a variety of collaborators provided the funding to develop the facilities       and construct "A Laboratory to support the Deuteration of Biological       Macromolecules" (Led by Forsyth in collaboration with Myles,       then at EMBL) as outlined in the ILL Millenium Programme proposal           of 2001.
In January 2003, Business, the       quarterly magazine of the BBSRC, included reference to the major Keele-led       developments in progress at the ILL which will "mean that biologists can       contemplate experiments that were simply impossible previously", while the       EPSRC Newsline reported that a key aim of the facility was       to "develop and train the UK user base" for these techniques.
In 2013 the Report from the ILL Associates' Working Group on           Neutrons in Europe for 2025 concluded that neutrons will       remain an essential tool for science and industry including not only       materials science but also the environment, life sciences and information       technology.
"Some two thirds of neutron scattering studies contribute       directly to or closely underpin the needs of industry".
Keele, through Forsyth       and Teixeira, and the next generation of Central Facility experts       currently being trained as PhD students between Keele and the ILL, will       continue to play a pivotal role in delivering and exploiting this science       and enabling the accompanying economic and social impact.
