     From 1993-1998 Keele researchers were awarded grants from the Atomic       Energy of Canada Ltd (AECL) Underground Research Laboratory (~&#163;1 million)       for the "Application of Induced Seismicity to Radioactive Waste Management       Programmes".
At this time, Applied Seismology Consultants Ltd. (ASC) was       formed around the research strengths of Keele's Applied Geophysics       Research Group [1].
ASC is now part of Itasca International [2],       a world-leading microseismic/geotechnical engineering company.
Keele-based       research has improved our understanding of rock fracturing/seismicity       around the construction of nuclear repository tunnels and its influence on       the development of fluid flow around radioactive waste materials.
The       research has underpinned the fundamental design of all underground       repositories, and impacted on the selection/mode of nuclear disposal       internationally.
The techniques/software developed during these       Keele-based projects (e.g.
InsiteTM) are now routinely used by       international companies associated with the construction, monitoring and       disposal of nuclear waste underground (e.g.
SKB Sweden; INERIS, ANDRA       &amp; ENS France) [1].
Professor Styles (Chair of Applied and Environmental Geophysics) was the       first to show the importance of microseismic monitoring for the prediction       of coal-face outbursts, a world-wide problem in anthracite mines.
He has       advised the Australian and Canadian Mining Industry on how to combat these       problems using microseismic techniques, with Australian monitoring of coal       mines now based on research he initiated and developed at Keele [3].
In 2009, Professor Styles was a member of the Foreign Office Clean Coal       Technologies Mission to Australia as scientific advisor to the national       coal industry on the development (and hazard implications) of developing       Coal Bed Methane (CBM) energy.
In the UK, the Outburst Prediction system       developed by the group was deemed by HM Inspector of Mines to be a       mandatory requirement for mines in the UK, which laid the foundation for       new mine-stability monitoring technologies in the salt/gypsum industries.
In 2002, Keele was awarded a &#163;600k grant from Vale Royal Council for the       Microseismic Monitoring of Salt Mine Instability in Northwich, Cheshire       (2002-2007).
The research provided vital information on the stability and       deformation characteristics of ground above and surrounding the mines, and       was pivotal in the design and ongoing monitoring of English Partnership's       &#163;32 million remediation programme (funded from the Government's Land       Stabilisation fund).
The stabilisation of the mines led to the       establishment of the 2007+ "Northwich Vision" regeneration programme and       the comprehensive Northwich Urban Design &amp; Public Realm Strategy of       2010 [4].
Keele-based microseismic research has led to staff serving on (and       Chairing) a number of key government policy-making advisory groups       including            DEFRA/DTI Criteria Proposals Group (CPG), Sub-Surface Exclusion         Criteria for Geological Disposal of Radioactive Waste (MRWS), 2006-7.
NDA Geosphere Characterisation Panel (2008-),       Royal Society Committee on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons         (2010-).
President of the International Commission on Hydrocarbon Exploration         and Seismicity in the Emilia region, Italy (2013-)          In 2011, the Department of Energy and Climate Change invited Prof. Styles       to join the independent evaluation panel investigating the       implications/nature of microseismicity associated with "Shale Gas       Hydraulic Fracturing" in Lancashire.
Their 2012 report "Preese Hall Shale       Gas fracturing, Review &amp; Recommendations for induced seismic       mitigation" has been pivotal in the government's decision to resume UK       Shale Gas exploitation on the basis of low microseimic risk.
Key       recommendations of the report were that future shale gas operations should       include...."seismic monitoring to establish background seismicity"       and an "effective monitoring system that can provide automatic         locations and magnitudes of any seismic events in near real-time" [5].
The research undertaken at Keele in the past fifteen years has underpinned       the development of these techniques and the methodologies needed to meet       the report's recommendations [6].
This work has led to Keele's       involvement in the recently formed "ReFINE Consortium" (Researching       Fracking in Europe with Durham, Newcastle and Heriot- Watt as University       partners) funded by RCUK and industry.
Keele has been instrumental in developing our understanding of the       nature, magnitude, risk and implications of ground vibrations from onshore       wind turbines.
In 2004-6, the group was funded by the MOD to undertake a       &#163;115k programme of research at Eskdalemuir, Scotland.
The project assessed       the impact of turbine-related microseismic noise on the MOD's nuclear test       ban treaty seismometer network and showed that, within certain distance       limits, wind turbines have little influence on the network's detection       capability or human health (as presented in a 2011 House of Lords debate [7]).
Keele-based work has had a major, positive impact on the development of       the UK's onshore wind provision and led directly to the permission for,       and construction of, 1.5 GW of renewable wind energy in the Southern       Uplands of Scotland, equivalent to inward investment of &#163;1.5 billion.
This       research has been highly commended by the Ministers of State for Energy       &amp; Defence [8], and has helped the UK government meet its       commitment to the Kyoto CO2 emission reduction targets (through       renewable energy provision).
The outcomes of Keele's research have also       been integrated into the 2006 US "Report To The Congressional Defence       Committees on The Effect of Windmill Farms On Military Readiness" along       with the recommendation that the Keele-developed monitoring methodologies       be adopted for all US wind farm sites [9].
This work also has       implications for the monitoring of offshore Carbon Capture and Storage       (CCS) in the presence of an extensive network of offshore wind-farms, with       current research being funded by DECC and NGC (Nanjing High Speed Gear       Manufacturing Co).
