     Resilience of Land/Water Resources: From 2006-2010, Cassidy       and Pringle were funded by InFront Solutions Ltd (a national environmental       engineering consultancy) for doctoral-level research into the effect of       extreme climate variation (wet-dry cycles) on the moisture/physical       properties of swelling clays associated with Tree-Induced Subsidence       (TIS).
Tree-induced subsidence costs UK homeowners/taxpayers in excess of       &#163;400M per year in building damage, and is an increasingly world-wide       problem for major insurance companies.
The research showed that the       damaging influence of tree root systems is more spatially extensive than       defined in the UK/EU building guidelines and that current TIS assessment       techniques are limited in their ability to define the extent and scale of       building-impacting ground movement [1].
The work has been showcased by the Clay Research Group, a UK-based,       EU-wide research and development forum that advises the international       insurance industry (e.g.
Zurich Insurance, Direct Line) who have now       incorporated the research findings into their guidance on assessing TIS       impacts and mitigation techniques [2].
As a direct consequence, Keele       staff have been invited to present keynotes at major end-user       events/conferences, including the UK Subsidence forum (the key UK event       for dissemination of research for the international insurance and building       technology community), the South African National Geoscience Congress [3],       and exhibiting at the Royal Society's "Labs to riches" research engagement       event in 2009.
`Science for Sustainability': From 2008, the Science for       Sustainability (SfS) programme has delivered over 350       sustainability/environmental events to nearly 10,000 schoolchildren       nationally.
Keele staff have worked with approximately 900 teachers and       delivered over 100 science outreach and engagement events to more than       16,000 members of the public [4].
These include the "Science tent" at       Bestival (which attracts more than 50,000 visitors per annum) in 2011,       2012 and 2013, and invited participation in the British Science Festival,       the largest science communication event in Europe [5].
The SfS       environmental education group has been shortlisted for three major       national awards: the 'Social responsibility' category of the Green Gown       Awards (for two years running in 2009 and 2010), the HEI sector       sustainability award, and the 'Communication' category award in "Sustain"       magazine (the only dedicated UK magazine for Sustainability, Business and       the Built Environment) in 2008.
Keele University Sustainability Hub: The &#163;3.5M       refurbishment of a derelict 19th century farm (including &#163;2.5M       of HEFCE funding and &#163;160k from the Wolfson Foundation), provides a focus       for the strategic development of environmental/sustainability research and       education across the University.
Recently nominated for a Queen's       Anniversary Prize, the Hub serves many purposes: a test-bed for new       technologies, an outreach centre for schools, a centre for public       awareness and a meeting place for interdisciplinary sustainability       research.
This investment was underpinned by the development of       undergraduate and taught postgraduate degrees in Environmental       Sustainability, which include strong industrial research collaboration       (e.g.
placements, industry-supported projects, specialist industrial       lectures).
The opening of the Sustainability Hub in 2011 led to key       partnerships being developed with local councils, businesses (from local       SMEs to international major companies such as Rolls Royce, Siemens and       Schott), government departments and charitable bodies (e.g.
Wildlife       Trust, RSPB, Keep Britain Tidy).
Since opening, the Hub has had over       20,000 visitors, including members of the public, schools, visiting       academics and government representatives [6].
The October 2011 meeting of       the Environmental Audit Committee (EAC) was held at the Hub, and led to       the establishment of the Sustainability Knowledge Alliance (SKA), which       runs annual events jointly hosted by the Royal Society and the British       Academy.
The SKA have been instrumental in informing government on       sustainability and environmental policy-making [6].
Business-related       research at the Hub has led to major economic gains for regional       industries and national recognition for research innovation.
For example,       a collaboration between Hub research staff and McCamley Ltd (developer of       a prototype `vertical' wind turbine) was short-listed for a Lord Stafford       Innovation Award for engagement of Universities with industry.
Working       directly with Keele scientists has enabled the company to fully evaluate       the performance of the prototype turbine (e.g.
assessing MW generation       output, vibration and noise levels) and establish its potential       application for new markets such as urban-based renewable energy [7].
Project Green: The economic and industry-related impact of       the Sustainability Hub is also evidenced by the success of the "Project       Green" business-link initiative and its successors, "Keele Connect",       "Project FIT" and "Destination Green".
Originally funded by HEFCE's       Economic Challenge Investment Fund in 2009 and running every year since,       this ~&#163;1+M funded initiative combines staff expertise from the       environmental sciences and management disciplines across the University.
It has provided environmental sustainability-related internships and       training to well over 200 graduates in more than 100 different companies,       predominantly SMEs, across the region.
For example, the most recent cohort       of 19 graduates in Destination Green saved 16 organisations 62,000 tonnes       of CO2, 2600 tonnes of waste, 220 MWh of electricity and       &#163;60,000 [8].
The programme also resulted in over half the cohort obtaining       graduate level jobs, predominantly in the environmental/sustainability       sector [8].
An excellent example of the impact of the internship programme       is the 2011-12 research collaboration with Kerry Foods, Burton-on-Trent       (part of the international Kerry group).
In a combined Destination       Green/MSc research project supervised by Keele sustainability staff, the       company was able to identify potentially recoverable losses of &#163;300,000       per annum in their food processing and waste-water streams [9].
As a       result, they have instigated a dedicated programme of waste and       environmental awareness across the company (from senior management through       to production line), and in its first year of operation was predicted to       save the company over &#163;20,000 in lost revenue due to waste-water charges       alone [9].
All of these activities align with Keele's institutional vision       to be "an environmentally aware and sustainable outward-facing campus         community" [10].
