     Commercial and International Impact     (a) The research has been directly applied by industries involved in       production of immunomodulators (Biorigin)       and fish feed (Biomar, 	  Skretting), providing independent       verification of the importance and advantages of using MacroGard       in the improvement of fish health.
Whilst unwilling to release any       sensitive commercial information, Biorigin did provide the following       statement" the results from the NEMO project have given us a better       understanding of the fish immune system in general and have contributed to       the development of new health concepts in the salmon business, where a       strong immune response is needed to prevent harmful pathogens.
As an       effect of these results, Biorigin has significantly increased the sales of       MacroGard to the salmon industry".
This impact has been extended globally       by the use of industrial contacts with fish production and a joint venture       between Hoole and Biorigin with ACG, the AquacultureCommunications         Group.
Since MacroGard shortly loses patent protection, Biorigin are       supporting studies on the development of a new generation of       immunomodulators based on conformational changes of 03b2-glucan.
The       advances made by Hoole are also being utilised by partners at Universati       Sains Malaysia in the production of snakehead and other Asian fish.
(b)The knowledge acquired by Hoole on fish diseases has been utilised       over many years by KeeleWater,       an environmental consultancy recognised by the Environment Agency to carry       out fish health checks under Section 30 of the Freshwater Fish Diseases       Act of 1975 and 1983 and "Buyer Beware Policy".
Reports produced for fish       farmers and fisheries officers, and consultations, have resulted in the       implementation of management strategies and biosecurity practices which       limit the spread of disease within the fish production sector.
Reports       also assist the EA to develop strategies and to reassess the threat of       individual parasite species to the UK fisheries sector.
(c) The research undertaken has also impacted on the ornamental fish       sector, an industry which is considered to be worth globally US$ 15B.
Consultations with the local Koi Carp branch of the British Koi Carp       Society have assisted ornamental fish keepers to improve their       understanding of diseases and thus implement strategies to improve fish       health and biosecurity.
In addition, joint studies with Tetra       and Biomar have supported       the scientific rationale for MacroGard being placed in their feed       products.
Impact on industrial employment skills     The EC and Industry are striving to improve the appropriate skills base       in academia, the absence of which leads to difficulties in young research       scientists initially adapting to, or following, a career in industry.
In       association with three of his industrial collaborators (Tetra,       Biorigin, 	  Biomar), Hoole has       established an industry-based training programme for young scientists       working in aquaculture research in academia.
Workshops in industrial       research training (e.g.
Fish Immunology held in the Netherlands, 11th-15th       April 2010; Protein crystallography and Molecular Modelling 15th-17th       September 2010; Carp Aquaculture held in Poland, 8th-11th May 2011;       Proteomics held in Denmark, 14-16th Nov. 2011) resulted in several young       scientists acquiring employment or sponsorship within the industrial       sector, and have established a legacy of young industry-trained research       scientists throughout the European Higher Education sector (see NEMO       web site).
Educational Impact and Raising Awareness     The research advances made by Hoole and the NEMO Consortium have been       adopted in and have modified the educational policy of several European       Higher Education and Research Institutes.
The work has changed the       perception of fish disease control and, in particular, the suitability of       using prebiotics and probiotics to improve fish health.
Incorporation of       the advances made into educational programmes for veterinarian courses in       Germany and specialised aquaculture workshops in Poland has impacted on       the dissemination of the knowledge base and practice within the fish       veterinary sector and the production of carp, particularly in eastern       Europe e.g.
Institute         of Ichthyobiology and Aquaculture, Poland; AquaCulture       Directory (2013), FEEDINFONews         Service (2013), and the Aquaculture         Communications Group (2013).
Impact on policy makers     Studies carried out by Hoole and the NEMO consortium have attracted the       attention of the Centre for         Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science.
This governmental       organisation, which is aligned with DEFRA, is responsible for fish health       and associated fish policies within the UK fish production sector and UK       territorial waters.
A joint meeting has been initiated to assess the       impact of the work carried out on fisheries research and future policy       strategies.
This has led to continued discussions with CEFAS and the       involvement of the European Association of Fish Pathologists to       co-ordinate with Hoole to organise a conference at Keele University in       September 2014.
In addition, through the Parliament Magazine's       Research-European Research &amp; Innovation Review 2010 p26 and reports to       the European Commission through the NEMO EU project officer, the       advantages of developing natural products as immunomodulators in       aquaculture will be assessed by the Commission and will input into the       sustainability agenda within the aquaculture fisheries.
