     Getting more from PACT     The impact of the Keele University Centre for Medicines Optimisation       (previously Department of       Medicines Management) led by Professor Chapman has been sustained and       developed over the       last fifteen years.
The pioneering work on prescribing analysis reported       in Cardiology precipitated a       service level agreement with the then West Midlands Regional Health       Authority and resulted in a       series of bespoke annual reports on performance management of prescribing.
The then Director of       Performance Management, David Lye, stated: "our partnership with Keele has       benefited us       enormously ...allows us to have constructive and informed dialogue with       health authorities and       GPs".
These reports set a template for performance management replicated       nationally (see       exemplar in National Audit Office (NAO) report [1] and, as they have       evolved within the changing       NHS, continue to do so.
[2]     The Keele unit has continued to be commissioned by the NHS and has now       produced over a       hundred bespoke reports all of whom have their origins in the early papers       published by Professor       Chapman and his team.
Our last report on 'Quality, Innovation,       Productivity and Prevention' (QIPP)       contains acknowledgement of Keele's impact in the foreword from Claire       Howard, national QIPP       lead.
[1] Our analysis of quality indicators and efficiency measures for       prescribing was       commissioned for and referenced in the pivotal `Prescribing Costs in       Primary Care' [2].
Quoting the       report, Sir John Bourn said "We have found that some small changes in       prescribing behaviour can       lead to substantial savings for the NHS.
All primary care trusts should       learn from the best       performing PCTs and strive to be as efficient in their own prescribing,       making the &#163;200 million in       savings realistically achievable".
Indicators of best practice contained       in the Keele bespoke reports       (e.g.
statins) have found their way into the contract negotiations with       general practitioners and       became part of their pay structure - the Quality Outcomes Framework (QOF).
The challenge in the       prescribing arena is definitively proving cause and effect in the maze of       variables that affect GP       prescribing, but it can be clearly shown that those initial NAO       recommendations based on Keele       findings have led to prescribing change - notably the push to generic       simvastatin, also applicable       to atorvostatin, with the associated benefits in both cost saving and       health gain [3].
These       indicators are still used in the Quality Improvement and Productivity       (QIPP) targets currently used       in primary care medicines management.
Many of the principles and analyses       arising from our UK       work have been applied internationally through consultancy work for the       WHO.
References to our       reports and corroborators in the WHO, who can testament to in-country       impact are provided below       [4].
Innovations to enhance prescribing performance:     Prof Chapman's papers, book chapters and reports all show how prescribing       change can be       produced using sound data analysis and robust review of clinical trials       evidence.
This change does       not happen by itself and Prof Chapman has pioneered additional novel       implementation strategies       to be used alongside quality indicators for prescribing.
The first was the       use of pharmacists as         trained change agents -later known as prescribing advisers and       medicines management leads.
The IMPACT initiative first described in his book Medicines Management       (1998) continued to be       commissioned by health authorities, PCGs, PCTs and CCGs as NHS structures       changed.
The       principles have now been adapted widely throughout the NHS and recommended       by the NAO       report Influencing Prescribing Cost and Quality Care [5].
The Midlands Therapeutics Review &amp; Advisory Committee (MTRAC),       started by and supported       by Keele's analyses, continues to have a significant impact on prescribing       practice in the UK.
MTRAC reviews are frequently quoted in NHS documents, medicines       information organisations       and in the National Electronic Library of Medicine (NELM).
The early       effects of MTRAC on       prescribing, based on an independent evaluation by the Kings Fund are       quoted in the Royal       College of Physicians report below [6].
The website www.keele.ac.uk/pharmacy/mtrac       receives       over 30,000 hits a month nationally and internationally.
There are       currently 61 MTRAC reviews       available in NELM.
The recent Review Of Specialist Pharmacy Services       contains evidence of the       impact of MTRAC on prescribing and subsequent patient gains in safety,       health benefit and       economy.
This confidential report is due autumn 2013 - when available       corroboration can be       provided.
The 2013 General Medical Council report "Good practice in       prescribing and managing       medicines and devices" directly refers to both MTRAC and the Effective         Shared Agreement         Toolkit we have produced to help ensure safe medicines use across       the primary/secondary care       interface.
[7]     The outcomes guarantee approach: initially a pilot in one health       authority, was rolled-out       nationally by Pfizer for a period of four years, and only halted when       atorvastatin came off patent.
During that period, many more patients were screened and treated for       hypercholesterolemia than       would have been the case under standard care and the health benefits from       that intervention       should be sustained for many years.
Results from the initial pilot are in       the public domain but the       statistics on uptake from the national roll-out are held in commercial       confidence by Pfizer UK [8].
The paper is cited in policy papers internationally in USA, Canada and       Europe, demonstrating how       the concept can improve appropriate use of medicines to improve patient       care and has gained       traction over time.
Two recent examples of this approach in the context of       expensive medications       are given [9,10].
Avatars to improve prescribing behaviours: Prof Chapman's recent       work on clinical simulation       was originally concentrated on undergraduate education of health care       professionals and a version       has been licensed to Monash University in Australia.
Our avatars have       recently been used by two       national initiatives - a UKCPA and Sanofi Aventis initiative on VTE risk       assessment and a NHS       Scotland (NES) programme of online CPD training on pharmaceutical care       plans.
The NES       programme is currently rolling out and will be evaluated in the autumn of       2013.
The Sanofi Aventis       initiative is bound by commercial confidentiality.
