     Menstrual Pictogram:     Direct impact: The immediate impact of the menstrual pictogram has       been to provide a simple, inexpensive, validated tool to replace       cumbersome collection of sanitary wear.
It provides a quantitative means       of assessment and diagnosis of heavy menstrual bleeding that is infinitely       more acceptable to women and researchers in the field.
It has been       externally validated for diagnostic purposes [1] and used by researchers       at various stages of its development to evaluate the impact of       interventions to treat heavy menstrual blood loss in high profile clinical       trials [2,3].
Impact on the pharmaceutical industry:       Heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) associated with fibroids affects up to 1 in       4 women and the development of safe drugs that can avoid the use of       hysterectomy to treat this condition is both a high clinical priority and       an important market for the pharmaceutical industry.
The first menstrual       pictogram (PBAC) has been used (e.g.
by American Pharma) for key studies       of HMB, e.g.
PEARL II, to support the successful licensing       applications for new drugs such as the progesterone receptor modulator,       Uliprstal, to obtain FDA approval [3].
Recent refinement of the pictogram       to account for the superabsorbent polymer sanitary materials will be       evaluated for international regulatory approval by FDA, EMA, and PDMA       (Japan) [4].
Symptometrics.
Symptometrics.com, the world's first internet-based premenstrual       syndrome symptom quantification technique (see Section 2) has received two       awards for medical technical innovation &#8212; the ICT West Midlands National       Excellence Award &#8212; Knowledge Transfer 2010, and the Medilink WM Medical       and Healthcare Business Awards 2010, [5].
Wider impact:     The research at Keele has advanced current thinking and clinical       management of disorders of the menstrual cycle, particularly premenstrual       disorders and heavy menstrual bleeding.
This research has underpinned the       development of evidence based guidelines [6] and state of the art reviews       of the management of menstrual disorders [7].
Professor O'Brien's       pre-eminence in the field has enabled him to establish the International       Society for Premenstrual Disorders (ISPMD), which he currently chairs.
This organisation is formulating a series of high impact International       Expert Consensus Statements; the first of these, published in 2011       focussed on the diagnosis, classification, quantification, clinical trial       design and management of premenstrual syndrome [8] precipitating       editorials in high impact journals (e.g.
BMJ, [9]).
Professor       O'Brien was Vice President of the Royal College of Obstetricians and       Gynaecologists a role in which he was responsible for national       professional and clinical standards with oversight of the development of       numerous clinical guidelines including that for PMS (although these were       independently authored) [6].
Additional impact underpinned by research at       Keele is the work of the British Society of Psychosomatic Obstetrics and       Gynaecology, (O'Brien currently chair), a multidisciplinary specialist       society which leads the biopsychosocial aspects obstetrics and gynaecology       nationally [10].
