     Research led academically from Leeds University has demonstrated clinical       benefit from a new       drug, eribulin, for patients with metastatic breast cancer with eribulin       now approved for use, being       sold worldwide, incorporated into international treatment guidelines and       bringing benefits to       patients.
Dissemination       The key eribulin trials described here were reported in high profile, peer       reviewed publications       (4,5).
The EMBRACE study (A) and Study 301 (B) both featured in the ASCO       Post, the "house       newspaper" for the American Society of Clinical Oncologists (which has       more than 30,000       oncologists as members), as highlights from the annual meeting of the       American Society of Clinical       Oncology in 2010 and San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in 2012.
The       EMBRACE trial in       particular attracted wide attention in the public media (C).
Recommendations for use: Professional bodies and guidelines       Primarily as a result of the EMBRACE results, showing a clinically and       statistically significant       increase in median overall survival of 2.49 months in women who had       exhausted other approved       therapies (5), eribulin has been included in the North American (NCCN) (D)       guidelines amongst the       "preferred drugs" for MBC and the European (ESMO) (E) guidelines as one of       the "new cytotoxic       agents" for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
Eribulin was on the       Cancer Drug Fund       "approved" list in all 10 English regions; it is on the new National list       and expected to continue       under new arrangements with the Commissioning Board (F).
Changes in policy: Governmental/regulatory bodies       The EMBRACE results showed improved overall survival, an endpoint not       achieved by any of the       other four single agents approved since 1975 by the FDA for the treatment       of MBC.
Eribulin       (marketed as Halaven) received regulatory approval from the United States       FDA in 2010 (G); it       was the first cytotoxic to be granted initial approval for refractory       metastatic breast cancer on the       basis of overall survival data.
Subsequently, eribulin was approved in the       E.U.
by the EMEA (H),       and is now approved in 81 countries world-wide.
The EMBRACE trial design was unique in using `treatment of physician's       choice' as the control arm       for a registration trial, there being at the time no standard approved       therapy for this group of       patients.
EMBRACE was also unusual being the first study in MBC to select       improved overall       survival as the primary endpoint and be successful.
The US FDA has since       commended the use of       `treatment of physician's choice' as the control arm in EMBRACE and the       choice of overall survival       as a primary endpoint in certain situations (I).
Novel aspects of the       EMBRACE trial design have       been adopted by in registration trials of NKTR-102 (the BEACON trial by       Nektar) (J) and T-DM1       (the TH3RESA trial by Roche/Genentech) (J).
Changes in practice: treatment, services and commerce       Eribulin, and subsequent use of eribulin, have generated commercial       impacts.
Total sales of       eribulin across all regions of the world were &#163;330m, including &#163;72m in the       EU, from 2011 to       September 2013 (K).
Eisai, which is based in the US but with its European       office in the UK, has       increased its EU workforce from none in 2009 to over 100 in 2013 for the       production, distribution       and marketing of eribulin both within the UK and internationally (K).
Sales of eribulin underpinned       R &amp; D investment by Eisai which has a budget of many millions in 2012       (K).
Changes in health outcomes: patients       Sales figures from Eisai show that thousands of women with metastatic       breast cancer have been       treated with eribulin (K).
It is too early to measure directly the impact       of eribulin on the survival of       women with MBC, and this would be complicated by other changes in care.
Given the 2.49 month       survival benefit shown by level 1 data from the EMBRACE study, with over       40,000 women with       MBC having received eribulin to date (K), approaching 10,000 additional       life years have been       gained from treatment with eribulin.
