     CLASICC conclusively demonstrated: the technical and oncological safety       of laparoscopic colorectal cancer surgery; benefits for patients       (including improvements to quality of life outcomes) and healthcare       providers (including health economics needed to guide policy decisions and       effective criteria for patient selection for laparoscopic surgery).
Impact on guidance and service delivery     These outcomes had a direct bearing on the attitudes of surgeons and       healthcare providers.
In 2000, at the time CLASICC was recruiting, NICE       guidance recommended "open rather than laparoscopic resection should be         the preferred surgical procedure" for patients with colorectal       cancer [A].
Six years later, CLASICC was one of only 7 RCTs, and the only       RCT to include rectal cancer, included in a NICE meta-analysis that       subsequently informed the updated NICE 2006 guidance [B].
The result was a       step change in recommendation to "laparoscopic surgery [should now be]         recommended as an alternative to open resection for individuals with         colorectal cancer".
The implication was that, where appropriate,       laparoscopic surgery should be made available throughout the NHS for all       patients with colorectal cancer.
Given that colorectal cancer is the third       most common cancer in the UK, affecting just under 40,000 people a year,       this has far reaching implications for the NHS.
CLASICC documented the       potential benefits to health care providers through improved efficiency       and cost-savings [J], corroborating those outlined in the NICE 2006       meta-analysis: laparoscopic surgery results in a reduction in hospital       stay of 1.4 bed-days/patient, with the potential to increase to 4-10       bed-days/patient [B, F].
With ~ 30,000 patients undergoing colorectal       cancer surgery every year, at a bed-day saving of 1.4 days per patient,       this equates to ~17,000 bed-days saved per year, or around &#163;7.5M saved per       annum.
Society at large has also benefited with patients and families       returning to normal activity sooner, and a quicker return to work for       those in employment.
Impact on Policy     CLASICC played an instrumental role in changing healthcare policy       throughout the UK and internationally.
Without the rigorous evaluation of       all aspects of laparoscopic colorectal cancer surgery (technical,       oncological, functional, health economics) it is unlikely that its       implementation would have quadrupled from 10% in 2009 to over 40% in 2012.
The change in NICE guidance in 2006 persuaded the Department of Health       (DH) to launch a &#163;20 million initiative in 2008 to promote laparoscopic       colorectal cancer surgery throughout the NHS (LAPCO) [E].
A letter to NHS       Chief Executives from the National Cancer Director outlined the need for a       national training programme, and highlighted the potential cost-savings       and the obligation of PCTs to fund and to make laparoscopic colorectal       cancer surgery "normally available" [F].
LAPCO has successfully trained       over 300 colorectal surgeons in laparoscopic colorectal cancer surgery.
Impact on clinical practice and patient outcomes     CLASICC has allowed laparoscopic colorectal cancer surgery to be safely       disseminated throughout the NHS, in accordance with NICE guidance.
More       patients now enjoy the benefits of the laparoscopic approach.
Laparoscopic       resections undertaken in the NHS have increased from 10% in 2009 to 40% by       2012, which equates to ~9,000 additional patients per annum benefitting       from the laparoscopic approach; a trend that has been confirmed using       national NHS HES data [G].
This means that ~9,000 patients per annum are       recovering quicker from surgery, spending 1 - 2 days less in hospital, and       returning to normal activities several weeks earlier.
Laparoscopic surgery       for colorectal cancer is fast becoming the standard of care throughout the       NHS, with the 40% UK adoption rate being one of the highest in the world.
The realisation that minimally invasive techniques, such as laparoscopic       surgery, reduces surgical trauma and facilitates patient recovery was       embraced as a central component of the National Enhanced Recovery       Programme, supported by the NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement       and the NHS Cancer Action Team [H].
The combination of laparoscopic       surgery and improved perioperative management is considered the current       gold standard for major colorectal surgery, with the potential to further       reduce in-patient stays.
The successful implementation of laparoscopic surgery, supported by       CLASICC, has lead to the evaluation of other technologies to further       improve patient outcomes in colorectal cancer surgery.
Robotic-assistance       may improve the capabilities of laparoscopic surgery and increase the       number of suitable patients.
This is currently being tested in a follow-on       study to CLASICC undertaken by the University of Leeds: the MRC/EME/NIHR       ROLARR trial, a pan-World randomised controlled trial comparing       robotic-assisted with laparoscopic surgery for rectal cancer [I].
ROLARR       is at the forefront of surgical clinical trials research and is likely to       be as influential as CLASICC.
Impacts on International development     Internationally, the CLASICC has become a benchmark study for the design       of other colorectal cancer trials.
These included an NCI multi-centre US       trial to gain further information about laparoscopic surgery in rectal       cancer [C] and the European COLOR II study.
CLASICC has informed policy       decisions across the globe, for example being cited in the 2012 US       Position Statement on laparoscopic surgery for curable colon and rectal       cancer [D].
It has lead to laparoscopic surgery being accepted in many       different healthcare systems as the preferred treatment for colorectal       cancer.
CLASICC is frequently cited as a point of reference in many       colorectal cancer publications and continues to be upheld as example of       rigorous evaluation of surgical technology that influenced surgical cancer       care.
