     Researchers at the University of Leeds clearly identified that widely       used surgical techniques were associated with local recurrence and death       in patients with rectal cancer.
We developed simple routine methods for       assessing tumour involvement in the circumferential surgical margin and       showed how these could be used to predict local recurrence and survival       and improve surgical performance.
Our concepts of the importance of the       circumferential surgical margin, Leeds dissection methods, photography of       the quality of surgery, introduction of routine preoperative MRI, and best       practice total mesorectal excision and extra levator excision methods have       become the gold standard in the treatment of rectal cancer patients around       the world.
Health and welfare     In the 1990s, patients diagnosed with rectal cancer faced a 20-30% risk       of local recurrence, which in turn is associated with high rates of       mortality and can be a very painful and unpleasant way to die.a,b       We were the first to conclusively show that not properly excising the       tumour in the circumferential surgical margin strongly influenced local       recurrence and death, involvement was found in 25% of cases where the       surgeon believed the operation had been curative.
We also highlighted the       importance of histological assessment in predicting recurrence and       survival.
Our work has improved the surgical skills and techniques used in total       mesorectal excision, abdominoperineal excision and the histology and       imaging required to support and guide treatment.
Through our studies       showing MRI could be used before surgery to assess the circumferential       surgical margin and predict outcome, this has become the standard approach       in Europec and around the world.
Patients can now be reassured       that they are receiving the best possible surgical techniques which can be       easily monitored and their chance of cure and survival have improved       dramatically from that seen two decades ago.
In 2013 our techniques have led to an impressive 40-50% reduction in       rates of local recurrence in curative surgery across England, Scotland,       Sweden, Denmark, British Columbia, Slovenia, Belgium Norwayd       and Spaine and survival in curative cases improved by 8% d.       This means &gt;1800 fewer patients suffering the consequences of local       recurrence and &gt;1,000 more surviving each year in the UK.
Society, culture and productivity     Between 2003-2006 we received &#163;6 million in Department of Health funding       to roll out the use of the histological, MRI and surgical techniques we       had developed to 1,639 individuals from 183/186 English bowel cancer       teams.f Professor Quirke led the pathology training, Dr Gina       Brown MRI and Professor Heald at the Pelican Centre, Basingstoke led on       the surgery education programme.
Between 2011 and 2013 funded by the NHS       (&#163;1 million) to provide LOw RECtal cancer courses throughout England       training 1,045 staff of147/151 English Trusts.
We conservatively calculate that each local recurrence costs the NHS more       than &#163;40,000 in direct medical expenses alone f saving       &#163;60,000,000 per anuum     NICE has recommended use of our concepts g and the practice       of all members of the multidisciplinary team in the NHS from surgeons,       pathologists, radiologists and oncologists has radically changed.
By defining the planes of surgery seen after operations for rectal cancer       and showing in a major clinical trial that rapid simple photographic audit       (using low cost digital cameras or good quality mobile phones) of the       quality of rectal cancer surgery was possible, we have revolutionised how       these procedures are performed and assessed.
This is now being       investigated as a tool in other cancers such as pancreas, oesophageal and       prostate.
Our methods have now been introduced into many professional guidelines       around the world - both surgicalh and pathologicali       and Trial protocols in Englandj and Europe     In addition, we have actively disseminated these techniques and standards       on six continents in conjunction with the Pelican Cancer Charity.
Protocols, trial protocols and educational material have been made freely       available on the web and by DVD.
Countries we have run education       programmes include many in Europe as well as Argentina, Chile, Russia,       Toronto, USA with demand continuing to rise.
