     The use of high-dose melphalan with autologous stem cell rescue and       associated combination chemotherapies was a novel clinical intervention       which was shown in a trial initiated and led from Leeds and run by the       Leeds CTRU (Myeloma VII) to significantly improve outcomes in patients       with multiple myeloma (1).
The addition of thalidomide and zoledronic acid       were shown in a subsequent RCT (Myeloma IX), the largest ever conducted in       myeloma, to further improve patient outcome (2).
Together this work has       transformed the standard management of myeloma.
Impact on health and welfare       The results of Myeloma VII - that high-dose chemotherapy with ASCT was a       significant improvement on standard chemotherapy &#8212; was incorporated in UK       clinical guidelines, with Morgan and Cook as advisors [A] and       international Guidelines [B].
This led to widespread changes in practice       as shown by an increase in the uptake of high-dose therapy with autologous       stem cell transplants in the UK in the treatment of multiple myeloma       rising from 211 in 1999 to 453 in 2005, the increase being sustained in       2008 - 2013 [C, D].
These changes were also seen internationally with a       doubling of use of this treatment between 2003 (publication of Myeloma       VII) and most recent data for all Europe in 2010 [E].
The latest cancer survival statistics for patients diagnosed in the       period 2005-2009 with their period of survival followed throughout the REF       Impact period (2008-2013) show large improvements in survival.
In men,       one-year relative survival rates for myeloma increased from 35.2% during       1971- 1975 to 70.4% during 2005-2009.
In women, one-year relative survival       rates increased from 40.6% to 72.3% during the same time periods [F].
Meta       analysis suggests that the use of high-dose melphalan with ASCT will       improve longer term survival in young myeloma patients (1).
This is       supported by figures which show ten-year relative survival rates for men       diagnosed with myeloma increased from 5.3% during 1971-1975 to a predicted       19% in those diagnosed in 2007.
In women, ten-year relative survival rates       increased from 4.8% to a predicted 14.9% during the same time periods [F].
Cancer Research UK, the external agency responsible for this analysis say       that high-dose treatment is an important component in this improvement in       mortality [F].
They observe "the most marked improvements in five-           and ten-year survival have happened since the early 1990s, probably           reflecting the effective and widespread use of high-dose chemotherapy           and autologous stem cell transplantation".
This was       substantially and materially a consequence of Leeds research (Myeloma       VII).
They add that more recent advances in biological therapies including       the use of thalidomide (Myeloma IX) mean that survival rates are       continuing to improve rapidly and "current data may underestimate           the survival rates for myeloma patients diagnosed today" [F].
Within the UK healthcare system, recommendations for intensive therapy and       for appropriate quality assurance of units delivering this treatment have       been developed.
Changes in healthcare professional training and       professional standards in competence and safety and have been implemented       for this treatment [A].
The importance of zoledronic acid in myeloma, as shown by Myeloma IX, has       been noted by reviewers [G,H] and incorporated into professional       guidelines in the USA, Canada and Europe-wide, which recommended that       "given the recent data from the Myeloma IX trial, zoledronic acid is the       bisphosphonate of choice in multiple myeloma" [H,I].
The use of zoledronic       acid in myeloma patients in the UK has increased.
An independent survey of       leading physicians and researchers working in myeloma voted the results on       the efficacy of zoledronic acid as the most important publication on       myeloma in 2010 [G].
The British Society Committee for Standards in       Haematology and the UK Myeloma Forum recommended that zoledronic acid       should be given to all patients who have symptomatic multiple myeloma       referencing Myeloma IX [A].
The study has also influenced clinical       guidelines recommending the use of thalidomide [A,B,I,J].
Subsequent       prescribing data from the UK shows uptake has increased as use the drug       has become widespread in clinical practice [K].
Leading international       opinion confirms the attribution of changes in myeloma practice and       outcomes to Leeds research and the MRC Myeloma trials conducted by the       Leeds CTRU and led substantially by Leeds based clinical investigators       [L].
