 The impact of the underpinning research on cellular beams is apparent in the construction sector.
Significance is in terms of the development of a new design concept applicable in all European countries, influencing regulations concerning the sustainability of buildings and cost savings in relation to fire protection.
Reach extends beyond industry and the construction profession with benefits to wider society in terms of safer building structures in the event of fire.
Contribution to the regulatory environment is evidenced in two principal ways namely development of the European Fire Design Guidance and improvement to the British Standards BS476: Part 20- 22 and BS5950 Part 8: Fire Design.
Concerning European Design Guidance, the underpinning research, in particular the results from the major fire test (February 2010) and findings from the fire resistance of long span cellular beams project have directly led to the development of a new design code for single cellular beams submitted to fire and extended design guidance concerning the whole floor structure (http://bookshop.europa.eu/en/fire-resistance-of-long-span-cellular-beam- made-of-rolled-profiles-ficeb--pbKINA25122/?CatalogCategoryID=w2wKABst3XAAAAEjfJEY4e5L).
The significance of the design guidance to industry is highlighted by Arcelor Mittal (corroborating statement 1, source 5.1) with this company confirming benefits in relation to fire protection and more economic designs.
Likewise, the findings of the research are directly applicable to manufacturers.
For example, ASD Westok identified the impact upon market share and cost savings to the company (corroborating statement 2, source 5.2) while Kingfell (corroborating statement 3, source 5.3) has indicated improvement of the structural performance in fire.
Reach is extensive, key beneficiaries of the guidance stemming from the underpinning research are structural designers using performance based fire design criteria, regulatory authorities at a UK and European level, fire-fighters and the general public who will benefit from safer structures and buildings.
The significance of the New European Fire Design Guidance, (http://www.ife.org.uk/about/events) Innovative Construction Design for Fire Safety Engineering is emphasised through the development of a European Training Course sponsored by CEC Coal and Steel and supported by the Institution of Fire Engineers and industrial partners.
Such proactive dissemination of the Guidance has successfully extended reach to constituent groups.
For example, RPS Group (corroborating statement 4, source 5.4) provides evidence of the training aspect of the impact and highlights the significance of the workshop sponsored by the European Commission as part of the underpinning research in the grant MACS+: Membrane action in fire design of composite slab with solid and cellular steel beams (research grant 3c).
Further illustration of the benefit of the underpinning research to the construction sector is the findings from the EPSRC grant (grant 3b) concerning the specific impact of the restraint effect on surrounding structural elements during a fire compartmentation.
This issue has become a major concern for buildings after 9/11 in which the restraint effect and fire severity ultimately led to the collapse of the World Trade Center Buildings in New York.
The research findings from this grant have shown how building collapse can be avoided by taking into consideration the axial effect (the additional forces transferred from the cold surrounding structural elements to the element under fire) at the fire design stage and thereby having more robust structures.
Significance arises from reduction in the cost of damages and reach relates to societal benefit across a range of stake- holders by improving safety to occupants/users in the event of fire occurring (http://www.westok.co.uk).
As a consequence of the research (notably references 3.1 - 3.3, grants 3a and 3b) the prescriptive "rule" specified in BS5950 Part 8:1990 for beams with web openings requiring 20% extra coating thickness, compared with solid-web beams, was withdrawn from the Steel Construction Institute (SCI) approved document AD269.
This significant change in the British Standard has been verified by the Steel Construction Institute (corroborating statement 5, source 5.5).
The benefits flowing from the new design guidance, developed from the underpinning research, is to ensure maximum operational use with regard to the life expectancy of the structure, irrespective of the building layout.
Furthermore, the analytical techniques developed by FireSERT have been utilised at an international level as evidenced by Kingfell (corroborating statement 3, source 5.3) and Beyond Fire (source 5.6) in regard to best practice.
Commercially there has been benefit to long span construction and an increased market share of steel beams.
As an illustration of the commercial benefit, ASD Westok suggests a cost saving of circa &#163;3 to 5 million per annum (corroborating statement 2, source 5.2).
The significance extends beyond cost.
For example, when cellular steel beams are used in multi-storey buildings the reduction in the total weight of the steelwork has the benefit of decreasing the depth of floors required to accommodate pipes, conduits and ducting thereby yielding significant benefit to the construction sector regarding the development of certain multi-storey buildings and the users of these buildings.
Details of the application and benefit of this research on cellular beams to industry has been highlighted on the ASD Westok web site (http://www.westok.co.uk) with specific reference to the underpinning research at FireSERT (source 5.7).
Wider community impact and interest is evidenced through extensive media reporting of the significance of the research and the safety of buildings in the event of fire (source 5.8).
