     We have evidence of impact from:            testimonials by parents and professionals       changes in the curriculum at a National Autistic Society flagship         school       invitations to present on the project regionally, nationally and         internationally          Imagining Autism's most significant impact at this stage is upon the       individual participants (22 in all), in some cases transforming lives: `He       has gained in his imagination, he is talking more, commenting on       everything.
He is identifying emotions, and naming them.
He gave me a kiss       and a cuddle which is very rare.
He is reasoning things out &#8212; we had a       conversation for 15 minutes for the first time.'
Strikingly, some of the       testimony revealing these benefits was given before the parent was aware       of the project sessions: `He really floored X and I last night with this       communication!!
He talked loads and in ways we had never heard him before!
Are you doing something new at school with him?'
[7].
Change in an individual child informs and influences the thinking of       carers, teachers, families, peers and professionals.
This research into       the language and culture of a minority group, moreover, has provided its       members with self-awareness and new modes of imaginative self- expression       [3].
The Assistant Educational Psychologist at The Helen Allison       School, Kent (National Autistic Society) attests to the changed         cultural values in the school and the students' enhanced capacities:       `Imagining Autism is a unique and captivating intervention that promoted       the well-being and self-confidence of participating students, all       of whom have presented noticeable improvements in their communication,       interaction and imaginative play skills.'
Participants have become more       accepting of other students in their personal space, more responsive to       others in the play environments, and more attentive to the consequences of       their own gestures.
The Assistant Educational Psychologist also notes how       peers have benefited: `The pretend play from the pod has transferred to       the playground... [the children] have also initiated games together and       with other peers...in regular pretend play' [5].
The Consultant       Community Paediatrician at the Children's Assessment Centre, Kent and       Canterbury Hospital, noted that some parents of the children in the study       have seen `their children do things in the environment [created by the       project] that they have never seen before,' and that `some [of the       children] have become more communicative' [8].
Parents testify to the positive impact on the family: `Thank you all so       much for what you did, I don't know how to put into words what it has done       for not only Z but for all of us' [7].
The Assistant       Educational Psychologist at The Helen Allison School similarly notes that       the `benefits experienced by the students [have] also positively       influenced their families at home, as well as their peers and educators at       Helen Allison School' [5].
Imagining Autism has changed the design and delivery of the NAS       Curriculum at Helen Allison School.
The educational psychology team now       recognizes that students can `creatively lead their own narrative with       increasing freedom each week.'
The team also understands the `value of       reinforcing imagination through intensive interactions between modelling       and replication, as well as providing reflective time for students to       process and instinctively choose how they wish to explore independently.'
The school is promoting personal and professional development `to learn       about the techniques used that could be incorporated into everyday       learning approaches,' stating that `we... wish to incorporate the       drama-based techniques with our approaches to learning' [5].
This       influence was extended regionally when the research team were       invited to present at an NAS consortium day (17/10/12) for staff training       in schools for profound, special and complex needs.
15 participants       representing schools in the South East region were trained in our       participatory and sensory approaches.
A changed understanding of `well-being' drives policy in care, education       and treatment.
The reported success of the project led to an invitation to       participate in the NAS's annual professional conference (6/3/13).
With 650       delegates this is one of the major platforms for UK policy development         and debate on autism and special needs.
Richard Mills, Director of       Research at the NAS, met the project team at this conference.
Subsequently       Jacqui Ashton-Smith, Executive Principal NAS has facilitated a tour of       seven NAS schools in the UK by the project team to train teaching and       caring staff in the Imagining Autism approach.
The work has reached out regionally into health settings and the NHS, via       local diagnostic services.
The Consultant Community Paediatrician at the       Children's Assessment Centre, Kent and Canterbury Hospital, a member of       the Imagining Autism Advisory Board, has pioneered the Imagining Autism       approach in diagnostic services and estimates that this has already       benefited approximately 150 children per year presenting for       diagnosis at her clinic.
She comments: `the project has shown that use of       these experimental environments can help autistic children to show skills       that are not apparent in clinics or classrooms.'
The project enabled her       to form `a more detailed picture' of participating children's needs.
The       project has `highlighted the need to consider all avenues to assess       children so that we have a really clear picture of autistic children's       abilities and...identify how they may be supported at school and at home'       [8].
She has shared these findings with between 15 and 20 medical       specialists in the East Kent region.
To summarise, Imagining Autism has resulted in significant local and       regional changes in attitudes and practice in both education and health       that are now creating national impact.
These changes have already had a       significant, beneficial impact on the individual children and families       involved in the project.
To conclude, in the words of the Assistant       Educational Psychologist at Helen Allison School: `we can easily envisage       Imagining Autism positively influencing the lives of many more individuals       impacted by autism across national and international services' [5].
