     RA is a chronic, systemic, inflammatory joint disease, affecting 600,000       people in the UK and is the largest cause of treatable disability in the       Western world.
Given its high prevalence in the working population, RA       represents a major economic burden through both direct costs of care and       through loss of employment, with one in five employed RA patients having       to stop work within the first 12 months of illness.
Treating RA costs the       NHS an estimated &#163;560 million each year, with wider annual costs       associated with sick leave and work related disability of &#163;1.8 billion.
With inclusion of nursing home costs and private expenditure, the       estimated costs are as high as &#163;3.8 billion a year.
The research       undertaken by the Emery group at Leeds has had a major impact on how the       disease is viewed, diagnosed and treated, leading to substantial       improvements in the health and quality of life of patients with RA and       reduced financial costs, both within the UK and internationally.
Impact on health and welfare       Research at Leeds has shown the need and impact of early, aggressive care,       a model that has been universally adopted in the UK.
The National Audit Office's guidelines on the management of RA &#8212; a       pivotal document commissioned by the House of Lords to review the NHS       standards of treatment for patients &#8212; cites Leeds work prominently [A].
Our work (4) provided the basis for a recommendation that: "It is       important that treatment is started early to minimise damage to joints,       and there is increasing evidence that aggressive treatment very soon after       the onset of symptoms can lead to remission."
In the same report, the       Rheumatology Service at Leeds is used as an example of excellence in early       treatment and multidisciplinary care.
Guidelines from the National Institute for Clinical and Health Excellence       (NICE) recommended urgent treatment for RA [B].
The full guideline       document quotes two Leeds papers which established the superiority of       imaging to detect synovitis and the need to identify this early and a       further five papers establishing the importance of aggressive treatments       particularly in early disease and where the prognosis is poor.
Underlining       the importance of early diagnosis, the British Society of Rheumatology has       recommended banded tariffs to see patients within three weeks of referral       [C].
Early, aggressive treatment improves patients' quality of life by       reducing pain and increasing functional ability and participation in       valued activities, including work.
Access to early referral is now       expected by patients and is part of the Arthritis and Musculoskeletal       Alliance "Standards of Care for Rheumatoid Arthritis" [D].
This defines       appropriate support to enable those with RA to lead independent lives and       reach their full health potential.
Standard 4 says: "All people with       suspected inflammatory arthritis should be seen by a specialist in       rheumatology within 12 weeks of referral from their GP, to confirm       diagnosis and enable prompt and effective treatment" citing Leeds       research.
Based on the Leeds model, the care of patients with RA has been       transformed across the globe [E,F].
Early, aggressive treatment is part of       the joint European and American Guidelines [G], which directly influences       the care of more than 11.4 million people with RA.
Treating to remission       is now a target recommended by several international bodies, which cite       Leeds research in the evidence, including that of an international       taskforce which refers to 17 Leeds papers [G,H].
Through Leeds' highly       successful International Fellowship programme, we have hosted over 25       clinical fellows from 15 countries, which has directly led to the setting       up of arthritis networks in Argentina and Brazil and the Gulf states, in       addition to Sweden, Netherlands and Germany.
Impact on the economy       The National Audit Office estimates that the financial impact to the NHS       of adopting the early treatment model is substantial [A].
Figures suggest       26,000 newly diagnosed patients in the UK each year, half of whom seek       early referral.
While earlier, more rapid treatment increases the initial       costs, modelling has suggested that these costs would be more than offset       by decreases in lost productivity and improved quality of life.
It is       estimated that by treating those who are seen early is associated with an       additional annual cost of &#163;2.2 million but productivity gains of &#163;6.2       million.
Impact on public policy and services       Emery was instrumental in launching the Fit for Work Europe       Initiative (www.fitforworkeurope.eu/),       an organisation showing that improvements in early intervention, treatment       and return to work practices could help people of working age stay in work       [I].
This report, launched at the Houses of Parliament in 2009, gained the       attention of policymakers and the media, informed Government thinking on       early intervention, prompted a debate in the UK parliament and contributed       to the initiation of a Government review of the costs and benefits of       treatment and care for rheumatoid arthritis patients in the UK.
As a       result, in September 2010, the Fit for Work Europe Coalition was launched       in Brussels to highlight to policymakers and relevant stakeholders the       importance of early detection, prevention and management of       musculoskeletal disease [I].
The European League Against Rheumatism       estimates that this has led to many millions of additional funding       allocated to musculoskeletal disease [F].
