     There are more than 370,000 older people living in around 10,000 care       homes in England, many of whom are frail, vulnerable and have multiple       medical conditions.
Work at Leeds introducing the concept of clinical       medication review in care homes, led to collaboration with teams in London       and Surrey to carry out the DH-commissioned CHUMS study.
We showed that       for 70% of care home residents, who were taking on average eight medicines       each, there was one or more error(s) in prescription, monitoring,       dispensing or administration [2].
It was clear from the research that       errors were found in all parts of the process and there was a lack of team       work from the health and care professionals involved.
The publication of       the report led to a ministerial summit to discuss the findings and develop       a way forward [A].
In January 2010, the Chief Pharmaceutical Officer and the Director       General of Social Care jointly wrote to all Directors of Adult Social       Services and PCT Chief Pharmacists drawing attention to CHUMS as "an         important research study" which "strongly indicates there is         considerable scope for improvement" in how medicines are used in       care homes.
At the same time an `immediate action' DH Alert was issued       citing the findings of CHUMS and requiring PCTs to work with care home       staff, general practitioners and pharmacists to determine how medication       errors in care homes can be reduced, with a four-month deadline [B].
This       led to changes in practice across the country [A] including the       commissioning of new services in NHS Bradford and Airedale, NHS       Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, and NHS Surrey.
Most notable was the       introduction of a pharmacist-led medicines review for care home residents       [A] to ensure they were safe and effective, as we had recommended on the       basis of our research.
Press releases designed to get the findings to the public led to the       research and subsequent recommendations by the DH receiving considerable       national media attention.
Raynor and Alldred were       interviewed live on BBC News 24, Radio 5 Live, and more than 10 local       radio stations.
There were prominent reports of the study findings in the       national (Times, Daily Telegraph, Guardian and Independent) and local       press.
One of the key points we made was that anyone concerned about a       relative in a care home should ask for a medicines review.
In April 2010, the Care Quality Commission (CQC) approached Alldred       and Raynor to review new assessment tools, developed on the basis       of CHUMS findings, for the management of medicines in care homes [C].
The       tools were subsequently used within a wider review of the quality of       healthcare provision in care homes published in March 2012 [D], along with       a report from the British Geriatrics Society showing a lack of access to       NHS services for care home residents [E].
Also in response to CHUMS, the Health Foundation and Age UK hosted three       focus groups for the Age UK network `Experts by experience'.
This       was the start of a nine-month improvement project to improve the safety of       care for those living in care homes [F],[G].
A series of six workshops to allow participants to act on the CHUMS study       were held in Spring 2010 across England, with speakers including the       National Clinical Director for Primary Care, the National Clinical Lead       for Quality and Productivity, the Chief Pharmacist at the DH.
The Centre       for Pharmacy Postgraduate Education developed a learning programme based       on the CHUMS study and this has been delivered to 2500 pharmacy staff       across England [H].
In 2010, The Safety of Medicines in Care Homes Project was       launched, bringing together the Royal Colleges of Psychiatrists,       Physicians, General Practitioners, Nursing, and the Royal Pharmaceutical       Society, representatives from the Care Home Sector, Age UK and the Health       Foundation to take forward the recommendations from the CHUMS report [G].
Alldred is a member of the Reference Group for this project, which       has developed a suite of tools, on the basis of CHUMS findings, to improve       medication safety in this setting.
From summer 2012 these prototype tools       were evaluated in 82 care homes, prior to national dissemination and       implementation [I].
They include:     &#8212; A summary medication record (held by the resident): 54% of care homes       that tested the record wished to use it in the future;     &#8212; Learners' workbook (to provide basic training in safe use of       medicines): 70% wished to use the workbook in the future;     &#8212; Leadership guidance (to support managers in safe use of medicines): 84%       wished to use in the future;     &#8212; Framework for making the best use of medicines across all settings: 80%       found that the framework successfully clarified areas of responsibility in       the home.
In 2012 the Royal Pharmaceutical Society Scotland published their report       Improving pharmaceutical care in care homes.
Of eight sources of       evidence cited, two were from the CHUMS study and, of 16 recommendations       four were based on the results of the CHUMS findings [J], [A].
Also in 2012, a DH commissioned report on improving the use of medicines       for better outcomes, described CHUMS as a major study which formed a "strong         call to action to improve the use and safety of medicines in care homes"       [K], [A].
It stated its intentions to integrate recommendations from The         Safety of Medicines in Care Homes Project upon completion.
