     Access to specialist RA foot care services: There are       approximately 580,000 people with RA in       the UK; the prevalence of foot problems in this group is consistently       reported to be over 90%.
The       publication of the FASTER national evaluation of podiatry services in       rheumatology departments       provided the NHS with key benchmark data on foot care services to these       patients.
Combined with       the findings of a 2004 report by Williams (University of Salford), which       suggested that in northwest       England only 21% of these patients had any access to NHS foot care, the       FASTER study       stimulated significant changes in the provision and delivery of foot care       to RA patients across the       country (detailed in the sub-sections below).
A subsequent national review by Otter and colleagues (University of       Brighton) provided strong       evidence that the care guidelines and NHS policies, based in part on Leeds       evidence, have       transformed practice: by 2011 some 70-78% of patients with RA had access       to foot care.
Changing practice &#8212; clinical guidelines: The Woodburn and       Siddle clinical trials were       instrumental in shaping recommendations on foot wear and callus reduction       in NICE clinical       guidelines for osteoarthritis [A] and two specific, numbered       recommendations on foot care in       patients with RA [B].
This latter document makes four references to the       Leeds research.
Changing practice &#8212; new standards of care and GP curriculum:       The FASTER evaluation of       podiatry services and the growing volume of evidence-based recommendations       on foot care       interventions led to Arthritis Research UK funding in 2008, a national       project led and chaired by       Redmond and supported by the UK umbrella body ARMA and the Podiatry       Rheumatic Care       Association, to set out formal, universally agreed standards of care for       the management of foot       related problems in MSK diseases [C].
A total of six citations to Leeds'       research are noted in the       standards which have been distributed to about 5000 specialist       practitioners since 2008.
The contribution of the FASTER group's extensive impact on practice across       the field is reflected in       Redmond's listing in the Times newspaper's list of the top 100       doctors in the UK in 2010 [D].
The adoption of the approach has also been supported by the publication in       2011 of a       commissioned ARUK Topical Review on the subject, co-authored by Helliwell,       Redmond and       Siddle [E].
The review forms part of a long-standing series       published by Arthritis Research UK       which is distributed to all practitioners in the UK and overseas on the       ARUK database, a total of       approximately 4000 primary and secondary care professionals from medical,       surgical, nursing and       allied healthcare backgrounds.
The evidence from the FASTER research and the new standards of care have       been included for       the first time in 2012 in the new musculoskeletal syllabus handbook for       the Royal College of GPs.
This will ensure that all training GPs (~3000 per year) will learn about       foot care for arthritis patients       based on the Leeds research [F].
Redmond, Helliwell and Siddle coordinate the       British Society for Rheumatology annual foot and       ankle course which in the last twelve years has been attended by more than       300 consultants,       registrars, GPs and AHPs.
Redmond also co-convenes the Society's       foot special interest group       which ensures that the Leeds research directly informs medical training       and, in turn, practice.
Changing government policies: The specific recommendations       of the NICE guidance and       standards documentation were incorporated during 2011-2012 into the       Department of Health       implementation guidelines for Any Qualified Provider (AQP) commissioning       for podiatry services       throughout England [G].
These guidelines highlight how a disease staged       approach, based on the       FASTER body of work, can target types of intervention to patients with       rheumatoid arthritis at the       correct time in the disease.
Redmond has also made contributions to the All Party Parliamentary       Advisory Group on       inflammatory arthritis and given an invited formal address in parliament.
In particular, he provided       background materials and evidence to inform a debate on the provision of       MSK services [H].
Improving foot care research, screening and rehabilitation for           musculoskeletal conditions:       Redmond's development and subsequent validation of the Foot Posture Index       has had impact on       foot care research worldwide [I].
The index is now commonly used to       measure clinical outcomes in       foot care studies.
Since 2008 it has been used as an assessment tool in       more than 150 clinical       studies including government-led population studies, military screening       studies and for measuring       the outcomes of rehabilitation approaches.
