     Identification of previously unknown gene mutations in Leeds has had a       major impact on diagnosis, management and screening for affected families.
Findings have also opened the way for better understanding of the causes       of inherited blindness and deafness and potential treatments.
Impact on health and welfare: Inherited deafness     Approximately seven million people worldwide have inherited deafness, and       of these around three million have deafness due to GJB2 mutations.
Prior to the discovery that GJB2 mutations cause inherited       deafness, it was impossible to carry out genetic testing in patients.
Our       work alongside international collaborators has enabled clinical genetics       laboratories to provide testing and unequivocal genetic counselling for       deaf individuals around the world during the period 2008-13.
As well as publishing, Professor Mueller worked with YRGS colleagues to       develop a diagnostic service screening for GJB2 mutations.
There       has been high demand for this locally due to the frequency of GJB2       mutations within the local Pakistani population.
Furthermore, in 2002 they       submitted details of the reagents and protocols used in screening GJB2 to       the UK Genetic Testing Network portfolio.
Other laboratories around the       world used the published information to set up their own GJB2       screening services.
In all, 353 laboratories offering molecular genetics       testing are listed on the Orphanet web site, which is primarily European,       while the Genetests website lists over 600 such laboratories, with a       greater emphasis on laboratories from the US and elsewhere (data confirmed       19/9/13).
There is little overlap, with laboratories tending to list on       one site or the other, and neither list is comprehensive.
It therefore       seems likely that over 1000 laboratories around the world offer genetic       testing.
Of these, 268 offer a screen for GJB2 [A].
We       surveyed 15 of these, including 4 UK, 2 US, 10 European and 1 Israeli       laboratories, which stated that they carry out a total of around 1340 GJB2       tests per year.
Using figures based largely on 2012 [B] we infer       that as many as 24,000 GJB2 screens are carried out internationally per       year [B].
For patients with genetic disease, a delay in diagnosis is one of the       principal barriers to appropriate care [C].
The availability of       genetic testing significantly improves outcomes for deafness, one of the       most common abnormalities present at birth.
A child with undetected       hearing loss is at risk of failing to develop normal speech and language       and acquiring the cognitive abilities needed to access education [D].
Presymptomatic identification of children with inherited hearing loss,       only possible through genetic testing in high-risk families, permits the       fitting of hearing aids at a very early age, which significantly improves       outcome [E].
It also facilitates the learning of speech skills and       training in lip reading and/or British Sign language.
Impact on health and welfare: Retinal dystrophy     Around two million people are affected by retinal dystrophy worldwide and       the 13 genes identified in Leeds over the period 1999 to 2013, which       include RP1 (1999), PRPF8 (2001), LRP5 (2004) and LCA5 (2007), may account       for around 5%.
With partial gene lists it is difficult to determine the       cause in such a heterogeneous disease, so finding new genes not only       benefits patients with mutations in these genes but also makes it easier       to interpret results in all patients, including those with mutations in       other known retinal dystrophy genes.
Our work, done in international       collaboration, has led to vital genetic tests enabling diagnosis and       appropriate counselling.
We worked directly with YRGS to develop a       screening service, providing primers, protocols and expertise.
In 2008 we       also submitted a gene dossier of diagnostic information on LRP5 mutations       to the UK Gene Testing Network (the document can be retrieved from                http://ukgtn.nhs.uk/uploads/tx_ukgtn/EVR_FZD4_LRP5_NDP_GD_Oct_09.pdf)       to facilitate the development of genetic testing for FEVR throughout the       UK.
The Orphanet and Genetests websites list 45 laboratories worldwide       that test for retinal dystrophies [A].
We contacted these and 6       responded, including 2 UK and 4 European, stating that they do 2995 tests       per year for PRPF8 (659), RP1 (1329), LRP5 (360) and LCA5 (647) [B].
These figures imply that perhaps as many as 22,000 screens for these genes       were done in 2012 internationally [B].
Qualitative research with retinal dystrophy patient groups by McKibbin       indicates that families place a high value on knowing the cause of their       condition and regard this information as potentially life-changing [F].
Genetic testing currently identifies mutation(s) in 50-70% of patients,       including ~5% with mutations in the genes identified in Leeds.
Knowing the       exact gene and mutation allows clinicians to give their patients a clear       prognosis, including likely progression and complications and clarifying       mode of inheritance.
In addition, in a growing number of cases, treatment can be improved in       light of the genetic diagnosis.
Some retinal dystrophies are treatable       with dietary or other interventions.
Diagnosis of a ciliopathy [4, 5]       points to a need to assess kidney function [G]; an FEVR diagnosis       [6] has implications for risk of osteoporosis and indicates bone       density scanning [H].
Genetic diagnosis can also lead to gene or       mutation-specific therapies.
There are now 16 different therapies for       inherited blindness undergoing clinical trials around the world [I].
Importance for families     The complex nature of genetic disease means that families and clinicians       place a premium on simple diagnostic tests [J].
Couples planning a       family can be given accurate recurrence risks, and unaffected members can       request confidential testing of genetic status.
Genetic counselling is of       particular relevance in the Pakistani community, where arranged marriage       to a relative is the norm, increasing risk of recessive disease.
Raised       awareness of the consequences of consanguinity may lead to changes in       reproductive practise and thus reduce incidence of these conditions.
The       Leeds Genetics grouping held quarterly meetings in Bradford 2010-12 with       patients, parents and families, patient advocacy groups and interested       healthcare professionals to discuss these issues.
