     This research had policy, commercial and health and welfare impact,       described in turn below.
The impact was realised via three pathways: a       workshop event targeting the manufacturers of devices; recommendations       within the project report; and publications and the National Patient       Safety Agency (NPSA) guidance.
Policy impact     The research formed the main basis for NPSA alerts issued to the NHS in       2009 and 2011 ("Safer spinal (intrathecal), epidural, and regional       devices") [B] that introduced non-Luer spinal connectors to the       NHS.
The supporting information for both alerts [B, C] referenced       the research and said the design tested by R.Lawton and       collaborators had "successfully completed laboratory, simulation and       clinical assessment stages, and was found to meet the functional       specification" and "demonstrated that such a design could be developed and       used in devices to treat patients."
[C] The alerts reflected the       Leeds-led team's call for further development of the successful prototype       connector, saying "refinement of this connector design and other designs       and their inclusion in a range of spinal (intrathecal), epidural and       regional devices is required" [C].
The alerts said all spinal       bolus doses and lumbar puncture samples should be performed using such       non- Luer connectors by 1/4/2011 (later revised to 1/4/2012) and that all       epidural, spinal and regional infusions and boluses should use such       non-Luer connectors by 1/4/2013.
The Association of Anaesthetists for       Great Britain has used the research to argue for robust testing of devices       to ensure safety before implementation [D].
Commercial impact     The research has shaped the provision of non-Luer spinal connectors in       the UK.
It resulted in revisions to existing non-Luer connectors and to       the design of the new devices introduced in line with the NPSA alerts.
Three of the five developers of non-Luer connection systems sent       statements [E-H] indicating that the research by R.Lawton       et al.
[2-5] influenced design, packaging and implementation of       their devices.
Indeed, at the time of the NPSA alert the Leeds team were       the only team to have tested prototype non-Luer designs.
The Surety system       is currently accepted as the non-Luer connector of choice by the majority       of epidural, spinal (intrathecal) and regional anaesthesia kit       manufacturers (CME Medical, 2013: [I]) and is currently being       purchased by 52 of the 55 NHS Trusts that have adopted safer products.
This research:     " ... was used as the basis for the design of the Surety&#174; system,         assisting us in the definition of its essential and desirable features."
Surety system manager [G].
The product manager of Flexicare Medical Ltd., which markets the Hall       Lock Spinal range of devices, said the work had not only changed the       company's general approach- underlining the need for a "simple and       intuitive (technology) with little operation difference to existing       equipment"- but defined details of design and training:     "The study played a major part in fine tuning our device evaluation         protocols ... focused our development teams on areas now known to         illicit [sic] the most doubt, like for example leaking, training,         packaging and impact on safety... Flexicare followed the recommendations         for implementation closely where possible, immediately widening the         group of clinicians involved in development and using visual aids to         support simulated evaluations ... We found the training recommendations         to be very useful and, based on the feedback contained in your report,         immediately produced a training video which could accompany the hands-on         practice we offered" [F].
The co-inventor of the Neurax system, which has been licensed to two UK       manufacturers [H], said the system had been altered in light of       the research by R.Lawton et al.
with connector parts now being       made from polypropylene rather than polycarbonate materials to avoid       leaks.
The syringe had been modified to deal with connection issues       identified by the research and a longer needle had been adopted.
New       packaging was also being explored in response to the research.
The potential UK market for non-Luer spinal devices is estimated at &#163;5-21       million per annum [F-H].
At the time of writing (August 2013), 55       of 161 UK hospital trusts were purchasing and using non- Luer spinal       connectors and adoption was continuing across the country.
The potential       international market has been estimated at up to &#163;2 billion [H]       and there is significant investment in the new devices [H].
The       Neurax connector design tested in the field and modified based on the       research is the basis for a draft ISO standard.
The competing design for       the ISO designation (Surety) was also strongly influenced by the research       [E].
The Head of Medication Safety at the NPSA said:     "I would like to emphasise the importance of your (Leeds team's) work         in developing/testing the Neurax design, a variation of which is likely         to be the new ISO standard design used globally in a few years time"       [J].
The UK is the first to make the changeover to non-Luer systems and the ISO     standard will influence adoption of non-Luer designs internationally.
Health and Welfare     The significance of the research ultimately rests on the safe       introduction in hospitals of new equipment that reduces the risk of       clinical errors that kill and severely injure some patients.
It is       difficult to quantify how many deaths and serious injuries have been       avoided by the new designs in the short period since the introduction of       the new devices, but there have been no reports of fatal or paralyzing       misconnection errors in the UK involving the safer non-Luer designs since       their introduction in 2009.
The research at Leeds has informed the design       of safer devices which have and will continue to reduce profound risks to       patients in the UK and, potentially, internationally.
