     In its efforts to elucidate the detailed mechanisms of action behind the       satiety cascade concept, Blundell's research group has developed       laboratory procedures and methodologies which have since been adopted by       industry and recommended by European and North American regulatory       authorities as a standard approach to food consumption and human appetite       studies.
The methodologies have been used in studies to support the       development of anti-obesity drugs and functional foods for appetite       control.
Setting standards of evidence for food and health regulators     In 2012 the Food Directorate of Health Canada made extensive reference to       the Leeds Methodology (pages 3, 5, 6,10,11,13,14) in its guidelines and       recommendations on the scientific assessment of functional foods for       satiety.
These guidelines set out how companies must validate any claims       they make regarding the effects of novel foods [A].
This Leeds       research has also informed the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in       setting standards for evaluating the food companies claims for foods to       exert effects on appetite, through Blundell's position as a       consultant to the EFSA NDA panel (2008 -10) [B].
Product development - functional foods and anti-obesity products     Appetite suppression is a major focus for anti-obesity drugs developed by       the pharmaceutical industry and for appetite-controlling functional foods       developed by the food industry.
The global pharmaceutical corporation       Merck adopted Leeds' methodologies to evaluate two novel obesity drugs,       the MC4 R agonist and CB1R inverse agonist.
The trials showed that MC4R       agonists lacked the potency required for further development, but the       appetite action of CB1R was related to brain activity [C].
The concepts of the satiety cascade and Leeds' approach to appetite       control studies are embedded within the functional food R&amp;D of large       consumer food companies such as Danone and Kraft Foods.
Companies have       produced a booklet developed from satiety cascade methodology, which       provides educational background on the value of controlling appetite as a       public health strategy [D].
The satiety cascade forms the major       principle underlying a pan-European project called SATIN.
This project       involves nine industrial partners (five SMEs) who have applied the satiety       cascade and used Leeds' experimental methodologies for innovative       functional food product development for appetite control (http://www.satin-satiety.eu/workpackage-4)       [E].
The project has identified six candidate products that the       partners are taking through to further development.
Commercial development and growth     In 2004 the Covance Clinical Research Centre, established its Human       Appetite Laboratory (HAL) for the measurement of food behaviour and the       use of instruments for the quantitative assessment of hunger and       motivation to eat [F].
The working practices and procedures of       this facility are based on the satiety assessment methodologies developed       by the Leeds research team, specifically the work by Blundell in       collaboration with Covance to adapt the methodologies into standard       procedures for clinical evaluations of appetite control [G].
The       HAL studies for US and EU companies represent Proof of Concept (POC) and       First in Man (FIM) - the results of which determine whether the drug       proceeds to Phases 2 and 3 [G].
