 Cowie's research into documentary has created an intellectual framework that invigorates debate on the relations between documentary, art and politics.
Widely-used nationally and internationally within HE curricula, and influencing the work of curators and filmmakers, her work on documentary enhances teaching, research and creative output in film, digital media, and the gallery.
International HE curricula Cowie's substantial body of research has notable reach and significance within the academy.
Central to the study of documentary, her scholarship has enriched the design and delivery of HE curricula in relation to the history of documentary, debates about fiction and non-fiction, as well as theories of spectacle and spectatorship.
Her work is also influential in Holocaust Studies and Moving Image Art practices.
The significance of Cowie's research for curriculum design internationally is evident in courses from Brown University, Massachusetts College of Art and Design, New York University, Temple University, and the University of Texas (USA); York University (Canada); the University of Bilkent (Turkey); and Monash University (Australia) [1].
Recording Reality is currently being translated into Chinese.
Curatorial practice The reach of Cowie's research is further evident in the diverse ways that curators have used Cowie's ideas to inform their understanding of documentary.
Hitomi Hasegawa, a curator for the on-line project space Frame, draws on Cowie's work on documentary and spectacle to explore the computer as peep show [2].
Rattanamol Singh Johal places his discussion of his curatorial practice in the context of Cowie's argument that `Documentary as installation in the gallery disturbs the categories of both "art" and "documentary"' [3].
Artists' film and video The cultural significance of Cowie's impact is visible in her creative dialogues with a number of international filmmakers and multi-media artists.
Through these exchanges, Cowie's research has enabled these artists to gain new understanding about documentary art, enriching and modifying their aesthetic and political strategies.
A key theme of Cowie's work is a concern with documenting the experience of trauma and violence.
Cowie has a long-established dialogue around these themes with Serbian artist Milica Tomi&amp;cacute;, who has exhibited in (among other places) New York, Sydney, London, Venice, Vienna, and Moscow.
Their dialogue brings to public attention debates related to political violence, memory and trauma.
Tomi&amp;cacute; states: `Elizabeth's work as a film theorist, intellectual and educator has had the most formative influence on my work.
Elizabeth's work...not only break[s] new ground in my understanding of film and art, but...our intensive and continuing discussion [has] helped me to understand and revisit the complex relation[s] between art, psychoanalysis, politics, and media.'
Tomi&amp;cacute; further comments that Cowie `is a kind of intellectual who has no fear to go far beyond academic understanding in relation to art practice and the role of the artist;' she also notes the significance of Cowie's work in `stimulating...my wider artistic and intellectual community.'
Tomi&amp;cacute; has discussed in particular the `direct influence' of Cowie's theories on her 2012 piece, Four Faces of Omarska [4].
Violence and memory is also taken up in Cowie's dialogue with Spanish artist Juan delGardo.
This conversation developed from her early engagement with delGardo's photographic project `The Wounded Image,' and her later DVD commentary for delGardo's Who Are You Entertaining To?
presented at his exhibition in Colombia (2009).
delGardo writes: `I came to a deeper understanding of my photographic and film practice through Elizabeth's subtle articulation of what was present as performance in my work.
Our discussions have enriched my work, and her recognition of what I have been seeking to achieve in my art in relation to trauma and disability, as well as to space and place, has been especially encouraging, and continues to resonate in my work' [5].
delGardo notes the continuing influence of Cowie's ideas on his works Fluctuations in Time (2011) and Sailing Out of Grain (2013).
Greek filmmaker Giorgos Kravaritis verifies the influence of Cowie's thought on aesthetics and political documentary in his experimental documentary `essay' Dokime (2013), which invites viewers to reflect on the veracity of documentary films.
Kravaritis' approach to the reliability and truthfulness of documentary filmmaking is directly inspired by Cowie's book Recording Reality, and was further shaped through detailed feedback from Cowie during the editing process.
He writes that `a big part of my thinking on documentary owes much to [Cowie's] research.
[Her] work was very influential for the film's chapter "on ideology"' [6].
Cowie's long-standing research into spectatorship and political engagement informed her exchanges with the internationally-exhibited multi-media artist Adam Chodzko during his AHRC Creative Arts Fellowship at Kent.
Cowie's research provides an important part of the intellectual underpinning to Chodzko's artworks.
Chodzko writes that Cowie's understanding of art practice and her enthusiasm for his project, mixed with her critical challenges, was `very important to [him] during [the] Fellowship' in helping to develop his practice and in deepening his understanding of identification and fantasy, concepts especially relevant to Chodzko's The Pickers (2009).
More generally Chodzko notes the continuing influence on his work of Cowie's research on `art documentary's engagement with the social and the political' [7].
Of her productive dialogue with Cowie, award-winning filmmaker Clio Barnard writes that `Her ideas [about Dark Mirror and Road Race] were an inspiration, encouraging me to develop further my formal interests in performance and in pushing the boundaries of documentary, as well as my personal interest in the idea of the displaced voice through re-enactment' [8].
Addressing how Cowie enriched her filmmaking, Barnard continues: `The Arbor benefited directly from [Cowie's] intellectual rigour and...generosity in imparting...theoretical ideas about documentary...guiding the practice as research...To discuss with and learn from someone with such a range of understanding about documentary was very supportive and stimulating' [8].
Dark Mirror and Road Race were formative in the development of The Arbor (2010), an innovative film that explored re-enactments of the displaced voice [see case study c: Making Films and Changing Lives].
In summary, Cowie's considerable cultural influence is built on a substantial body of research central to the study of documentary internationally.
Its impact is evident in HE curricula on documentary, fiction and non-fiction, Holocaust Studies, and moving image art practice, and in the practice of curators, artists and filmmakers.
