     Our research has had impact at national and international levels,       stemming from our long-standing engagement with policymakers, agricultural       extension workers and land managers.
National level impacts     The research led to the development of new integrated land degradation       monitoring and assessment methods [1], which were adopted at the       national level in Botswana [A].
Environmental assessment manuals       based on field research undertaken by Reed and Dougill (based on       socio-ecological research led from Leeds, 1998 to present) resulted in new       local monitoring systems linked to management decision support tools.
These have been distributed by Dougill since 2010 through agricultural       extension services in 3 sub-districts of Botswana (SW Kgalagadi, S       Kgalagadi and mid-Boteti).
Our methods prompted a shift away from solely       scientific evaluation of land quality towards integration of scientific       knowledge with local knowledge.
This research was a contributing factor       that altered the emphasis of Botswana's land degradation priorities to       include ecological change including bush encroachment of grazing lands       (e.g.
Fire Suppression Programme 2011), rather than solely wind erosion,       which previously dominated national policy statements (e.g.
UNCCD National       Action Programme, 2006).
The new methodology for explicitly including local knowledge has ensured       that assessment tools are easy to understand, do not require expensive       equipment and that indicators are suited to the environmental, social and       economic context, allowing sustained monitoring to take place.
The       assessment manuals provide information on appropriate indicators and new       decision-support tools, which have guided sustainable land management       practices by outlining practical and cost-effective management       alternatives to new Village Rangeland Management Committees established in       12 Botswana villages.
The manuals are also used in national training       programmes for agricultural extension staff provided by the Botswana       College of Agriculture and Government Department of Agricultural Research       [A].
Enhanced community involvement in rangeland degradation       monitoring targets policy gaps noted in the UNCCD National Action       Programme (Republic of Botswana, 2006).
Similar approaches are being       replicated globally and are being advanced through major international       programmes in which Stringer and Dougill have a role.
These international       projects include EUFP6 DESIRE, EUFP7 CASCADE, the Food and Agriculture       Organisation's LADA (LAnd Degradation Assessment) programme and the World       Overview of Conservation Approaches and Technologies (WOCAT).
International level impacts     Our research [2-6] has also informed international policy by       changing the ways in which scientific input feeds into international       policy on land degradation [B, G].
In doing so, it has introduced       new topics to the UNCCD policy agenda, including knowledge management, the       economics of land degradation and the need to strengthen the       science-policy interface [C].
Recognition of the value of our       input in informing international policy has led to a formal Memorandum of       Understanding between the University and the UNCCD Secretariat [B].
The letter from the UNCCD Executive Secretary accompanying the MoU signed       in Jan 2013 [B] states: "I take this opportunity to express my       deep gratitude to the University of Leeds for its support to the work of       the UNCCD secretariat and the implementation of the Convention".
Recommendations building on proposals by Stringer in 2008 [5]       drew attention to the lack of suitable channels for research to feed into       the UNCCD - an issue that was relatively low on the international policy       agenda prior to its use to develop a COP Briefing paper [F].
The       initial impact of this was a shift away from dependence upon a Roster of       Experts (membership of which was politically determined by governments)       towards wider scientific input through UNCCD Scientific Conferences       (drawing on peer-reviewed science that also integrates local knowledge).
Routes to enhance the science-policy interface over the longer term       featured in White Paper 3 [D], which was developed for the First       UNCCD Scientific Conference (Buenos Aires, 2009) [E].
An e-survey       consultation was commissioned by the UNCCD in July 2011, building on       recommendations in [C] and [D].
Stringer's key       involvement in the research that informed these actions led to an       invitation to undertake a series of scientific reviews, presented to COP10       (Changwon, 2011).
She peer-reviewed the e-survey analysis and results were       adopted in CST/L.9/COP.10 [C], calling for the establishment of an       ad hoc Working Group on Scientific Advice to the UNCCD, to       determine the optimal structure of the science-policy interface for land       degradation issues.
The first meeting of the ad hoc Working Group       took place in July 2012, which began the evaluation of possible       science-policy interface options proposed.
The international impact of the       research is thus twofold: i) a change to public policy and ii) development       of new institutional structures [G].
