     Research conducted in Leeds has had an impact on environmental and       government policy and has       led to improved management of the world's forests.
The research provided       critical knowledge that       enabled the establishment of forest climate mitigation schemes, has       facilitated private sector       philanthropy and has provided an influential impact that altered the UK       Government's biofuel       policy.
Forest climate mitigation impact     The research that quantified carbon storage in tropical mountain forests       [1] enabled the World       Land Trust (WLT) to establish a forestry-based climate mitigation scheme [A].
Over the period       2006 to 2010, the scheme has resulted in the investment of over &#163;440k in       forest protection and       reforestation activities across Ecuador [B].
To ensure impact from the research, the University of Leeds       co-established the United Bank of       Carbon (UBoC, www.unitedbankofcarbon.com).
Originally a partnership       between the University of       Leeds, the Bettys and Taylors Group and Deloitte LLP, UBoC is now a       registered charity       (1133285) that brings together business, non-governmental organisations       and academia to support       climate change mitigation through protection of the world's forests and       their peoples.
The role of       the University of Leeds is to provide underpinning scientific rigour to       the charity's activities based       on a sound foundation of academic research in climate change and climate       mitigation [C,D].
In       collaboration with over 40 national and international non-governmental       organisations, UBoC has       established a database of forest protection projects, which is used to       match UK businesses to       forest protection projects.
Researchers at Leeds support a detailed       assessment of these projects       against community, climate and biodiversity criteria.
This thorough       academic assessment lends       confidence to private sector investment in forest protection [D].
In its first two years (2009-2011),       UBoC worked with more than 20 UK businesses to bring about the investment       of &#163;1.5 million in       forest protection, resulting in improved management of over 200,000       hectares of rainforest in       Tanzania, Peru, Malawi, Kenya, Uganda and India resulting in avoided       emissions of at least       620,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide [C].
The charity has also       achieved notable successes and       awards in the UK including the Yorkshire Pride 2011 award for the most       meaningful philanthropic       initiativeby a business, organisation or leader.
Collaboration with UBoC       has resulted in       demonstrable benefits to UK companies: Deloitte LLP was ranked 16th in       2012 Sunday Times Best       companies to work for with a top 10 result for environmental protection       which was directly       attributed by the newspaper to the company's work to preserve Tanzanian       rainforest, which is       being done in collaboration with UBoC [E].
Biofuel Policy Impact     The underpinning research has impacted UK biofuel policy.
After the paper       in Science [2] was       published, Spracklen was invited to provide expert advice to the       House of Commons       Environmental Audit Committee in 2007, where he argued that UK biofuels       policy needs to account       for land-use change emissions from biofuel production.
The report on this       session of the committee       concluded that "The stimulation of biofuels production by the         Government and EU is reckless in the         absence of effective mechanisms to prevent the destruction of carbon         sinks internationally.
The         Government must ensure that carbon sinks are effectively protected         before providing incentives for         the use of biofuels" [F].
In 2008, Spracklen was       invited by the think-tank Policy Exchange to write       a policy report detailing land use emissions from biofuels [3].
Media coverage of these reports [2,3]       was extensive (including BBC, Guardian, Telegraph, New Scientist) and       helped disseminate       findings of the research and contributed to wider public awareness of the       issue.
In 2009,       Spracklen and Policy Exchange submitted joint written evidence to       the Environmental Audit       Committee on deforestation.
The Leeds-led research influenced policy       debates of the sustainability       of biofuels within the United Nations, the Food and Agriculture       Organisation and the United Nations       Environment Programme documented in a range of publications and reports [G,H].
In total,       research by Spracklen [2,3] was cited by over 250 policy relevant       publications.
The above       research evidence and debate contributed to a decision in December 2011 by       the UK Government       to amend the Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation (RTFO) to include       mandatory sustainability       criteria which would for the first time address carbon emissions from       land-use change [I].
Under       the amendment, fuel suppliers must account for land-use change emissions       and be able to       demonstrate that cultivation of biofuel feedstocks do not damage areas       with high carbon stocks.
This policy amendment will ensure that biofuel use in the UK does not       result in the clearance of       natural forests and grasslands worldwide.
