     Context - a large market       Chronic wounds such as infected leg ulcers represent a significant burden       to patients and to healthcare systems throughout the world.
A study in Nursing         Times (Nursing Times 2008, 104, 44- 45) describes the       impact of chronic wounds on a representative healthcare system:       approximately 200,000 patients in the UK have a chronic wound and the cost       of caring for these patients is conservatively estimated at &#163;2.3-3.1       billion per year i.e.
around 3% of total NHS expenditure.
The cost of       treating those patients with venous ulceration, mostly in primary care and       through community nursing services, is over &#163;168-198 million per year.
Pain and odour can affect quality of life, and these common symptoms are       frequently associated with poor sleep, loss of mobility and social       isolation.
As described in Section 2, the candidate photodynamic therapeutic PPA904       stems from the discovery and initial evaluations of the new class of       photosensitising dye by Brown, Griffiths and colleagues.
Subsequent       studies by the Leeds team revealed that these dyes have properties which       made them suitable for photodynamic therapy (PDT).
The candidate agent       PPA904 was identified as part of targeted chemical modifications led by       Griffiths and laboratory antimicrobial screening studies led by Brown (5).
The intellectual property generated by the two research groups was       transferred to the spin-out Photopharmica for further development in 2001.
Patents have been granted in all major territories in the world,       all of which are current and are owned by Photopharmica, covering the       application of specific phenothiazinium photosensitisers in photodynamic       treatment (A,B,C,D)     Commercial impact - job creation       Photopharmica successfully raised &#163;11.5M of external investment from IP       Group PLC and others to support its research and development programme,       &#163;6.25M million of which has been deployed since 2008 (E,F) (see below).
Some of these funds have supported further research and development of       PPA904 and other candidate photosensitisers by researchers at the       University of Leeds (outlined in Section 2).
The establishment of Photopharmica as a viable spin-out company       has also created jobs.
Since 2008, Photopharmica has employed on       average 8 employees according to the needs of its R&amp;D cycle, and       additional personnel have been employed at contract research organisations       providing services to support its clinical trials (F).
Health benefits - reducing infectious bacteria       Between 2009 and 2011, Photopharmica deployed around &#163;6.0M to fund a Phase       IIb trial of antimicrobial photodynamic therapy involving PPA904 in the       treatment of chronic leg ulcers.
Thus, a new drug was trialled with         patients.
This trial involved 11 leading UK institutes and recruited       57 patients at seven sites across the UK (G).
The trial showed that subjects receiving weekly PPA904 treatment (with       light activation) showed a statistically greater reduction in the total       load of bacteria in the wound compared to placebo and light.
Crucially,       significantly fewer PPA904-treated patients (compared to placebo)       experienced post-treatment bacterial load levels above the recognised       clinical threshold for prevention of wound healing.
Significantly fewer       PPA904-treated patients experienced very high post-treatment bacterial       load levels, suggesting that PPA904 may reduce the risk of acquiring an       infection.
All bacterial species, including MRSA, were substantially and       significantly reduced (H).
The trial reported that the treatment was well tolerated and no safety       concerns were raised by the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board.
Analysis of wound area and quality of life scores showed that the       treatment had no adverse effect on either (H).
Commenting on this trial, the Head of Wound Healing at Cardiff University       Medical School, Chief Investigator on the trial and Editor-in-Chief of       International Wound Journal commented: "In 30 years in the wound         healing field, I have never seen a topical treatment with efficacy         anywhere near that which Photopharmica has demonstrated.
Very few         significant advances have been made in this field over the last decade;         I believe the Photopharmica technology is the disruptive change needed."
(I).
Following these promising Phase IIb clinical trial results, in December       2012, Photopharmica raised a further &#163;250K in external investment to       source an acquisition and/or co-development partner to help bring a novel       photodynamic antimicrobial to market (E,F).
