     The ability to predict potential significant toxicity of pharmaceutical       impurities is of vital importance to the pharmaceutical industry because       many drug candidates fail in development due to toxicity problems.
Early       toxicity testing can prevent the costs associated with unnecessary R&amp;D       and the late failure of drug candidates.
Universally accepted by regulators       In 2008 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) published guidance on "a         variety of ways to characterize and reduce the potential lifetime cancer         risk associated with patient exposure to genotoxic and carcinogenic         impurities both during clinical development and after approval."
Derek Nexus is specifically cited as a recommended prediction tool to       inform decision-making (A).
Although a number of methods are mentioned       alongside Derek Nexus for this initial toxicity evaluation, in practice,       the use of Derek Nexus by large pharmaceutical companies is effectively       universal (B).
In a survey of eight leading pharmaceutical companies in       2012, Derek Nexus was the method of choice for all eight companies in       assessing genotoxic risk; in half of cases, Derek Nexus was the only       commercial product used (C).
An article from 2013 co-authored by       representatives from 15 companies confirms the on-going value of Derek       Nexus in the drug development process (D).
Changes to guidelines have         been informed and the pharmaceutical sector has adopted       Derek Nexus as a tool for toxicology prediction.
Faster to market to increase revenues       The universal application (C,D) of the Derek Nexus system between 2008 and       2013 derives from its excellent success rate in identifying structures       that represent a genotoxicity risk and providing supporting evidence for       its assertions (C,D).
The success of Derek Nexus has embedded the software       in the workflow industry-wide as a means of reducing costly and       time consuming experimental evaluation.
An article co-authored by       representatives from 13 major pharmaceutical companies explains how Derek       Nexus can accelerate the development process, whilst still ensuring the       regulatory requirements to ensure patient safety are met; the article       places the success of in silico approaches (judged using the       industry-accepted negative prediction value) at 94%, which increases to       99% with interpretation by an expert user (Regulatory Toxicology and         Pharmacology, 2006, 44, 198-211).
One pharmaceutical company shared some experiences of two development       programmes that led to launched products over a 5-year period before the       industry-wide acceptance of toxicology prediction tools.
In each       programme, the regulatory authorities raised concerns about the       genotoxicity profile of a low level impurity, leading to a 1-3 month delay       while the safety of the impurity was established experimentally.
In each       case, a Derek Nexus-based assessment would have been negative, and would       have avoided any delay.
As it was, based on a conservative estimate of the       delay (1 month) and a conservative estimate of the annual sales figure for       the launched products during their patent period of exclusivity (each       &#163;200M), the use of Derek Nexus, now embedded in current practice, would       have increased revenues by &#163;30M.
If this scenario is common to all large       pharmaceutical companies, then the increased revenues across the sector       over a 5-year period (using a conservative scaling factor of five-fold)       can be estimated at &#163;150M.
The Director of Computational Toxicology at       GlaxoSmithKline corroborated in 2012 that the impact of embedding       prediction tools (in particular Derek Nexus) for genotoxicity in current       practice was broadly in line with his experience and a realistic       assessment for the sector as a whole (E).
The performance of a sector         was thus improved.
Reduced costs during development       The embedding of predictive toxicity tools has also had a significant         bearing on cost and resource.
Each year, on average, a major       pharmaceutical company might perform 100 Derek Nexus screens on impurities       to adhere to regulatory guidelines for genotoxic impurities.
Of these, a       significant proportion (&gt;50%) will generate a clean signal and, as a       result, development can proceed without further safety testing.
In the       absence of a reliable predictive tool embedded in industry practice,       experimental screening would require substantial resource for synthesis,       purification, analysis and testing.
Assuming an FTE rate of &#163;100K, and       applying a conservative resource requirement of 0.25 FTE-year, a cost       saving of &#163;25K per example can be estimated.
Scaling for 50 clean signals       per year, and applying a conservative scaling factor for the industry of       5-fold, this corresponds to an estimated cost saving of &#163;30M over a five       year period.
The Director of Computational Toxicology at GlaxoSmithKline       corroborated in 2012 that the impact of embedding toxicology prediction       tools (in particular Derek Nexus) in current practice was broadly in line       with his experience and a realistic assessment for the sector as a whole       (E).
Employment and revenue       Lhasa Ltd. is a not-for-profit company (and a registered charity) and is       responsible for the continued support of cheminformatic research       undertaken at the University of Leeds in support of its charitable aims.
There are currently 254 organisations who are members of Lhasa Ltd.,       including all of the top 20 pharmaceutical companies in the world (F).
In 2005, the research capacity supporting Lhasa Ltd's development had       grown substantially, and the staff left the employment of the University       and became employees of Lhasa Ltd. Lhasa Ltd.'s growth has accelerated       dramatically in the last five years (see Table below) (G,H).
In 2012,       Lhasa Ltd. reported an annual turnover of &gt;&#163;5.4M; the Derek Nexus       system contributed 56% of turnover, with Meteor Nexus (18%) and other more       recent products based on Leeds research providing further major       contributions (G).
In 2012, Lhasa Ltd. employed 71 highly qualified staff       (G).
The company has therefore established its viability and generated         revenue.
Table of income and staff numbers at Lhasa Ltd., 2007-2012                                Year           Income (&#163;000s)           Staff                             2007           3,0287a            51                             2008           3,819a            58                             2009           4,379a            59                             2010           4,442a            61                             2011           5,063a            69                             2012           5,416b            71                          a.
Audited accounts.
b.
Management accounts.
The introduction of Meteor Nexus alongside Derek Nexus adds a layer of       sophistication which addresses a key gap in toxicity prediction: the       ability to predict potential metabolic routes, together with the       prediction of the toxicity of the predicted metabolites.
Lhasa Ltd.'s       strategy for continued growth focuses on Meteor Nexus as a key product       alongside further development of Derek Nexus to meet the needs of       end-users in the pharmaceutical industry.
