     The emergence of commercially viable Raman microscope technology has       produced a very broad spectrum of impact, that can be divided into two       classes: (i) impact of the technology itself - Raman technology is now       used for a very wide range of applications; (ii) economic impact, as       demonstrated by the success of Renishaw plc through their sales of the       technology.
Pathway to Impact and (i) Wide-Ranging Applications of Raman         Technology     The underpinning research at Leeds led directly to a range of commercial       Raman technology for Renishaw plc, clearly incorporating the innovations       of Batchelder et al.
[A-C].
This technology is now widely       used in many applications, some of which also link directly back to the       work of Batchelder et al.
on explosives detection [2] and       drug identification [6].
Current Raman technology applications include:     - Pharmaceuticals [D]: Raman spectra are used to generate chemical images       and thus for applications such as rapid screening and polymorph       discrimination.
- Carbon and Diamond [E]: Raman spectroscopy is used for quality control       of carbon and diamond coatings.
- Materials Science [F]: Raman analysis is used extensively, for many       materials such as composites, polymers and catalyst reagents.
- Geosciences and Gemology [G]: Raman spectroscopy is used widely for       analysis of geological materials and also for the classification and       valuation of gem stones.
- Forensic Science [H]: Raman techniques are employed widely in evidence       analysis, for their ability to identify without contamination very small       samples of substances such as drugs, gunshot residue, paint chips, ink,       etc..
In particular, the use of Raman spectroscopy for the identification       of gunshot residue is on the increase due to the introduction of       "non-toxic/lead-free" ammunition increasing the chances of false positives       from previously applied methods.
- Nanotechnology [I]: Novel Raman techniques enable analysis below micron       scales and thus characterisation of nanomaterials such as carbon       nanotubes.
- Art and Heritage [J]: Raman spectra can identify pigments and       authenticate works of art.
The technology has been used for investigation       of the Turin Shroud, the Lindisfarne Gospels and demonstrating the Vinland       Map as a fake.
- Semiconductors and Devices [K]: Raman analysis can reveal stress,       strain and impurity or dopant levels in semiconductors and devices,       providing a tool for R&amp;D and quality control during manufacturing.
(ii) Economic Impact during the REF period     Major economic impact has arisen from the creation of new Raman       microscope technology that is commercially viable, based on the       underpinning R&amp;D work by Batchelder et al..
This       technology generated expansion of the Renishaw product range to include       Raman microscopes, with all the accompanying jobs and economic benefits.
The Raman Spectroscopy Division now represents a multi-million pound pa       revenue stream within Renishaw plc.
The major economic impact of Raman lies predominantly within the       Healthcare section of the Renishaw group.
Renishaw Healthcare contributed       &#163;21.7 million to the revenue of Renishaw in 2011, amounting to 8% of the       group's total income, with the predominant income source being the       spectroscopic instrument range based on the patents and technology       developed by Batchelder [L].
The first half of 2012 saw a       streamlining of Renishaw Healthcare but nevertheless still with growth in       the Raman spectroscopy range (Raman AFM package introduced) leading to a       27% increase in revenue compared with the same period of 2011 [M].
Furthermore, from [P]: The Healthcare section of the group contributed         &#163;29 million to the revenue of Renishaw in 2013, some 9% of Renishaw         total turnover.
The Chairman's statement on Healthcare for the 2013         annual report stated "Spectroscopy sales continued to be the main driver         in this business segment and were at a record level."
Renishaw offer a product line including a very large number of flexible       configurations of a fundamental Raman microscope device, within which the       innovations of Batchelder et al.
are highly visible in the       optical setup of all the available Raman configurations [C-E].
From       2008-13, Renishaw have produced the world's best selling research Raman       microscope, the inVia [N].
As evidenced from [P]: The innovations of       Batchelder et al.
have been incorporated in the inVia         microsope product which has been the world's best-selling research Raman         system 2008-13.
New Directions and Applications     Raman analysis continues to have growing impact as a research tool.
For       example, Renishaw Raman microscopes based on the work of Batchelder       et al.
have been used by Oxford, Cambridge and other leading       universities to research the role of defects in graphene [O], paving the       way towards industrial manufacture and application of graphene in the       future.
