     According to the `World report on road traffic injury prevention'       (WHO, 2004), an estimated 1.2m people are killed in road crashes each       year, and some 50m people are injured.
Research indicates that speed is       the major contributory factor to such accidents.
The more severe the       crash, the more likely it is that driver speed is a contributory factor.
Despite the introduction of speed-calming measures such as road humps,       lane narrowings and speed cameras, many drivers continue to exceed speed       limits.
Safety tests of new cars     The key impact of the ITS Leeds research has been to drive a significant       change to European-wide `quasi-regulation' concerning the safety features       of new cars.
More specifically, the European car safety testing agency       Euro NCAP took the decision in 2012 to award extra points to new vehicles       fitted with ISA from 2013 onwards.
Only systems with a proven safety       contribution to crash avoidance and mitigation are recognised under the       new `Safety Assist' procedure, and ISA is one of only three crash and       injury prevention technologies that are given extra points as part of the       overall safety evaluation of new cars (the others are seatbelt reminders       and electronic stability control).
In the points system, a higher score is       given for cars with intervening as opposed to purely advisory ISA.
A letter from the Chair of the relevant NCAP working group [A] confirms       that: "...research by the University [i.e.
by ITS Leeds] on         the safety impact of ISA provided important evidence to underpin our         decision to award points under the Euro NCAP Safety Assist protocol to         new cars fitted with ISA and to give extra points to vehicles fitted         with intervening ISA systems".
The norm with new Euro NCAP       requirements is rapid change by the car industry to comply.
New vehicle regulations     A more general impact of the research has been the stimulus to policy       debate in the area of new vehicle regulations.
Formal (as opposed to       quasi) regulation for new vehicles is set at a European or international       (UN-ECE) level.
In 2013, prior to a formal legislative process, the EU       announced to stakeholders that it is actively considering compulsory ISA       deployment in new vehicles, citing ITS Leeds research [B].
Such regulation       would affect light and heavy trucks as well as cars.
Contributing to road safety policy - national and international     Further stimulus to policy debate and development has occurred in the       area of road safety policy.
The research undertaken by ITS Leeds since       1995 has produced a body of evidence which shows that ISA systems in       vehicles - which either automatically prevent the cars from exceeding       speed limits or advise drivers (and riders) when they go too fast - can       significantly reduce the risk of injury accidents and fatalities.
Drawing       on this research, policy-makers at national, European and international       levels have all highlighted the ISA approach as an effective - and cost       effective - way to deliver large safety improvements.
For example, the 2008 OECD report `Towards Zero' on road safety       strategy drew upon ITS Leeds research [2] in recommending ISA as a key       intervention for large reductions in road accident injuries: "Research         in the UK by Carsten and Tate (2005) suggests that the mandatory use of         a supportive ISA system could bring about a reduction of serious crashes         of up to 50%, while the use of an informative ISA system could result in         a 2-10% reduction in crashes."
[C]     In 2008, and also citing [2], the Global Road Safety Partnership,       collaborating with the World Health Organization, the FIA Foundation and       the World Bank, also recommended ISA as a tool for speed management [D].
This `good practice manual' is promoted by the World Health Organization       as part of its `Decade for Road Safety' to promote global action on       road safety.
Again in 2008, the UK governmental advisory bodies CfIT and the       Motorists' Forum recommended- on the basis of the commissioned ISA       research and specifically reference [5] - the deployment of ISA, and       issued recommendations on the next steps required to bring about this       change [E].
Shaping environmental and transport policy debate     A final impact of the ITS Leeds research has been the stimulus to policy       debate in the area of transport and the environment.
In 2010, the UK       Sustainable Development Commission used the ITS Leeds analysis of the       effects of ISA on CO2 emissions to argue that ISA would help to       reduce the carbon footprint of transport by reducing speeds and therefore       making motoring more fuel efficient.
In particular, the Commission used       the ITS Leeds evidence to recommend that the UK Government should "accelerate         actions to enable the widespread introduction of voluntary Intelligent         Speed Adaptation technology" (where "voluntary" means an overridable       intervening system) [F].
