     One of the key recommendations of the research was for the need to       develop finance opportunities       to enable payments to be made for ecosystem service benefits to be derived       from upland       landscapes.
The project directly influenced the policy debate in this       regard enabling a policy shift       towards facilitating private investment in upland management which maps on       to the policy briefing       documents and Westminster workshops produced by the project.
For example,       our findings were       reported by the Commission for Rural Communities Inquiry into the Future       of England's Uplands.
This reported to the Prime Minister in June 2010 with some of our inputs       verbatim, particularly       those relating to carbon and water markets, and payments for other       ecosystem services [A].
This work influenced a Government Upland Policy Review published on 10       March 2011 outlining       the actions to be taken by the Government.
This review stated that Defra       were going to "explore       and review the opportunities and challenges for the use of payment for       ecosystem service       approaches, including in upland areas" [B] and this was a direct       result of our project.
The above       review also fed into the Government's Natural Environment White Paper in       2011 (which       consequently included a number of commitments on payments for ecosystem       services (PES) and       peatlands) [C].
One of the direct recommendations made in research       papers [5], and at policy-maker workshops in Whitehall and Edinburgh organised by the Sustainable       Uplands research       team, was to implement a UK peatland carbon code to facilitate corporate       investment for the       protection of upland peatlands.
Notably, one of the commitments in the       2011 Natural Environment       White Paper was to publish a PES Best Practice Guide [C], and this       Guide features Sustainable       Uplands research about peatland carbon markets [D].
Project       researchers worked closely with       Defra, DECC and International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN)       to break down barriers       to implementing a UK peatland carbon code, work which also supported by a       NERC Knowledge       Exchange Fellowship (Viki Hirst) held in SoG and a number of follow-up       initiatives developed from       the underpinning research (e.g.
NERC funded Valuing Nature Network project       http://www.valuing-nature.net/news/2012/peatland-carbon-code; 	  http:tinyurl.com/cyade85).
The       project team was       invited to submit the idea for the proposed peatland carbon code to the       Ecosystem Markets       Taskforce (a commitment in the Natural Environment White Paper to identify       business       opportunities in light of the National Ecosystem Assessment).
The code was       ranked joint top       opportunity out of 44 submitted opportunities by the Taskforce [E]       (made up from industry leader       representatives) and they recommended the development of a robust code for       peatland restoration       in their final report of March 2013, which reported directly to three       Secretaries of State in Defra,       DECC and BIS.
The code (which has to be open, consistent, credible and       verifiable) was       developed with funding from Defra as a PES Pilot.
Defra published its PES       Action Plan in May       2013 and announced its intention to work in partnership with the IUCN UK       peatlands programme       and others to support the testing, development and launch of a pilot       peatland carbon code [F]       (http://www.iucn-uk-peatlandprogramme.org/peatland-code/about).
This code       is the UK's first       regulated scheme to facilitate peatland restoration using carbon finance.
It takes account of the       trade-offs and complementarities between ecosystem services as determined       by the underpinning       research.
It is a direct impact from the Sustainable Uplands project [F].
It enables companies to       develop CSR via investment in upland blanket peat restoration and       protection which also yields       multiple ecosystem service benefits (e.g.
improved water quality and flood       alleviation) [F].
Other Sustainable Uplands project findings have been used by water       companies to justify using       land management and PES to reduce water treatment costs.
These strategies       are being       implemented in the business plans prepared in early 2013 to be submitted       to OFWAT as part of       the 2014 Price Review.
Exemplar companies include South West Water [G]       and Yorkshire Water       [H].
The former was supported by a NERC internship run jointly by       SoG and Birmingham City       University, to develop PES approaches within the business bundling carbon       and biodiversity       benefits in tandem with their clean water programme.
Yorkshire Water       commissioned a direct       piece of work (fieldwork and further modelling using the models developed       by the Sustainable       Uplands project) about costs and benefits of water treatment costs versus       reducing water colour       and fertiliser inputs from upland management through land management       change and paying or       incentivising farmers to change their behaviour.
Related to this the       project's outcomes (citing       Holden) were used as part of the St George's House (Windsor)       consultation into the uplands       recommending that more water companies should be pushed to invest in       upland management for       multiple benefits to society and that regulators should be encouraged to       incentivise such       approaches [I].
The project has also benefited land owners and managers.
For example, it       provided inputs to       Pennine Prospects' review of its Integrated Management Strategy and       Conservation Action       Programme for the South Pennine Moors and Nidderdale Area of Outstanding       Natural Beauty's       last Management Plan [J]     Our technical reports for the IUCN Commission of Inquiry (reports       available http://www.iucn-uk-peatlandprogramme.org/resources/reports 	  - see for example `Peatlands and       climate change')       provided evidence for IUCN lobbying of the UK Government and for EU Common       Agricultural       Policy reform as part of the IUCN process.
As a result the environment       ministers of the UK       governments formally announced in February 2013       (http://tinyurl.com/acn84x2) that they were       committed to conserving peatlands in the UK and British Overseas       Territories and set out an action       framework to protect and enhance the natural capital of peatlands       recognising their importance for       biodiversity, water and climate change.
[K]     The project received the Rural Economy and Land Use (RELU) Best         Impact Award from the &#163;30m       cross research council RELU programme which ran from 2004-2013.
The award       was voted for by       business people, scientists, and policy makers.
Sir Howard Newby, who       presented the award,       said: "Environmental and social change in the uplands has implications for       all of us and this project       has helped our understanding of these changes, and enabled people who live       in and make use of       the uplands to make more informed choices."
[L]
