     The impacts of this research in the assessment period have been in three       distinct areas.
Use in Addressing EU Water Framework Directive Obligations     Pre-2008 Context of Impact: Mitchell was invited by DEFRA to work       with their non-agricultural diffuse pollution policy group, including       invited presentations to DEFRA policy makers and analysts in June and       October 2006.
The context for this work was the water quality objectives       defined by the EC Water Framework Directive (WFD), and the need to       understand strategies and costs to attain compliance nationally.
Members       of the working group were then charged by DEFRA with developing a `source       apportionment' methodology, to identify compliance with in-river water       quality standards given a range of source inputs (rural diffuse, urban       diffuse, point etc.)
and mitigation scenarios.
The work was based on a UK       WFD sentinel catchment &#8212; the Ribble in NW England (includes Blackburn,       Preston, Blackpool) &#8212; with financial support from UK water industry       research (UKWIR).
Mitchell produced model estimates of urban diffuse       loadings to river reaches in the basin.
Other source inputs were modelled       by the Environment Agency and the Water Industry, whilst WRc [A]       integrated inputs in SIMCAT, a river mass balance model that determines in       river pollutant concentrations, and compiled the final report [B].
Mitchell's database and the Ribble study are cited in works on preliminary       cost effectiveness assessment of measures by DEFRA [C] and Water       Industry Working Group [D].
Assessment Period Impacts: The Ribble study demonstrated the value       of having reliable estimates of pollutant inputs, integrated across a       catchment, and the potential benefits of different control measures in       terms of compliance with WFD directive standards.
It was the first study       able to include a detailed appraisal of urban diffuse inputs.
The       methodology developed in the study has been enhanced through development       of SAGIS &#8212; a commercially available source apportionment GIS model funded       by UKWIR and led by Atkins working with WRc (i.e.
Ribble partners) and       AMEC (formerly Entec) [A].
SAGIS has been adopted by the       Environment Agency in WFD Article 5 risk assessments for `River Basin       Planning 2', which runs from 2012 runs to 2015; Article 5 of the WFD       mandates assessment of the pressures and impacts on water bodies [E].
The SoG work has also been used by other parties to provide catchment       data and advice to UK governments in support of catchment planning and       policy appraisal.
ADAS UK Ltd [F] in conjunction with the Centre       for Ecology and Hydrology used the methodology and export coefficients in       quantifying urban diffuse exports of sediment and nutrient species, as an       input to whole catchment pollutant budgets.
Their work for DEFRA (e.g.
projects WQ0106 and WQ0128) assessed the likelihood of catchments failing       to meet Water Framework Directive 'good ecological status' targets for       2015 and provided evidence for ecological impacts of fine sediment, whilst       that for the Welsh Government (Agri-Environment Monitoring and Services       Contract Lot 3 No.183/2007/08) contributed to an on-going evaluation of       agri-environment schemes (whereby farmers receive grant aid to farm in an       environmentally sensitive manner).
United Utilities (UU) [G] also       commissioned Mitchell, via Emaginating Ltd, to model urban diffuse loads       for their entire company region, most of NW England.
UU's integrated river       water quality model accounts for river hydrology, background water       quality, continuous and intermittent discharges (flow and quality) from       wastewater treatment works, combined sewers, storm tanks and urban surface       water discharges, the latter addressed by data modelled by Mitchell.
UU's       integrated models are used to identify the location of intermittent       discharge problems, and in design of Capital Projects to alleviate the       effects of unsatisfactory discharges [G].
Finally, work for SEPA [H]       allowed an evaluation of urban diffuse loading tools in Scotland, and via       scenario modelling at Leeds, provision of advice on diffuse loading       implications of urbanisation.
Influence on Construction Industry Guidance     Pre-2008 Context of Impact: The stormwater pollutant coefficient       database addresses 18 important urban diffuse pollutants, which       environment managers seek to control.
Analysis of these data led to the       recommendation of probabilistic (including central tendency) values of       pollutant concentrations in stormwater, subdivided by geographical region       (UK, N. Europe, Global) and urban land use (residential, commercial, road       etc.).
The UK construction industry, which is responsible for the       installation of sustainable urban drainage systems (SUDS) that are used to       control stormwater pollution, recognises these data as the most       comprehensive analysis of urban stormwater pollutant concentrations.
The       data are published in guidance to developers (CIRIA 609) on SUDS planning       and implementation produced by the Construction Industry Research and       Information Association, the UK construction industry advisory body [I:       45-49].
Assessment Period Impact: CIRIA 609 was superseded in 2007 by "The       SUDS manual" and its abridged guide "Site Handbook for the Construction of       SUDS", but for technical design guidance relating to water quality (as       opposed to flow), developers continue to be referred to CIRIA 609 [see       page xxxii), and hence this has been the relevant guidance throughout the       assessment period.
DEFRA estimate 40% of all new build and redevelopments       in the UK are now being developed with SUDS measures (for reference,       planning authorities in England permitted 342,000 domestic and commercial       developments in 2012, and 108,000 new homes were constructed).
Commercialisation for SUDS Planning     The 2010 Flood and Water Act mandated national standards for SUDS and       statutory SUDS approval bodies (SABs) to regulate and permit SUDS designs.
Quantitative techniques support evaluation of SUDS designs, and SAB       decision making, hence in 2012 Jeremy Bentham Associates (JBA, www.jbaconsulting.co.uk),       a UK based international environmental engineering consulting firm       licenced the stormwater pollutant (EMC) coefficient database from the SoG.
The database underpins UK applications of the proprietary SUDS planning       model MUSIC (model of urban stormwater improvement conceptualisation)       developed by the Australian Cooperative Research Centres and sold by       eWater Innovation Pty Ltd (www.ewater.com.au;       company ABN 80 133 551 283), who appointed JBA as their sole European       agent (for context, MUSIC received &#163;4 million of investment funding from       the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and has       sold 2000 copies in Australia over the last decade).
MUSIC requires       geographically suitable stormwater loading coefficients for use in UK/Eire       applications of the model, and JBA have purchased non-exclusive rights to       Mitchell's EMC database, for 5.5% of net revenue [J] [K].
