     The demonstrable impact of our research falls into three interrelated       strands:     (A) Direct technology impact: In face biometrics, via company       spinout (VisionMetric) our face       modelling has spawned a highly successful commercial product (EFIT-V),       enabling victims of crime       to create near-photographic quality facial likenesses from memory,       assisting hundreds of serious       crime investigations.
EFIT-V is used by more than 85% of Britain's Police       Forces [S1] and is       deployed in over 30 countries, with a client base of around 200       organisations.
Since its release in       early 2008, licensees have seen increases of more than 100% in useful       intelligence (as reported in       the Investigative Practice Journal of Police Professionals, the largest       circulation police weekly).
An       extended study of its performance in the field involving more than 1000       interviews resulted in an       exceptional 40% naming rate (Driver and Rowbotham, E-FIT user conference       2009).
Construction       is also up to 100% quicker than for traditional, feature-based systems.
The system has not only       been pivotal in fundamentally changing the means by which facial       composites are created but has       proven to be of major social value.
Our work on biometric access       monitoring supports the integration       of dual biometrics into the SmartCare telehealth platform marketed by       InMezzo Ltd [S2],       establishing the engineering parameters required for implementing/managing       biometric security on       generalised hardware platforms and providing additional customer features.
Kent's iris biometrics       research has had impact in two areas.
First, in collaboration with Smart       Sensors Ltd, we have       developed a flexible imaging system which allows easy iris image capture       at multiple gaze angles       and differing illumination conditions.
This coupled with the training       strategy optimisation process for       unconstrained image capture which has thereby been facilitated, is helping       the company develop       its next generation iris recognition systems [S3].
Second, we have       researched the way in which       physiological ageing influences iris image processing, and how this       affects template management.
This and parallel work using the handwritten signature modality has made       an important       contribution to the growing body of work urgently needed on understanding       ageing effects in       biometrics, leading to the commissioning of the first reference book       (appearing in 2013) on this       subject [S4], edited by Fairhurst, representing a state-of-the-art       benchmark essential to promoting       longevity for practical biometrics solutions.
Work on pressure profile       dynamics in signature       biometrics (Fairhurst) has been taken up by Wacom, an international market       leader in digitising       graphics tablet manufacture, in a redesign of products (notably their       current Intuos and STU-       signature tablets; in excess of 100,000 signature pads are sold per year)       extending their reach into       biometrics/forensic applications [S5].
Our work on novel classifier       structures has informed       fundamental biometric landscape reports for DSTL, HMGCC and BAE Systems       and is at the heart       of work with Accenture (Fairhurst, Guest) to develop new client-facing       technologies [S6].
In       implementing privacy enhancing technologies, work on biometrics-mediated       encryption (Howells,       Fairhurst, Deravi) has impacted directly on the InMezzo Ltd development       (above), and has       extended to system development for DSTL.
It is protected by patent       PCT/GB2007/002471 and has       driven the spinout of a new company (Metrarc).
(B) Standards and systems.
We play an influential role in the       international standards       development process.
The International Organization for Standardization       (ISO) is the world's       largest developer of International Standards and the International       Electrotechnical Commission       (IEC) serves world markets and society through its standardization and       conformity assessment       work.
Standards give state-of-the-art specifications for products,       services and good practice,       making industry efficient and effective and facilitating globalisation.
Guest is UK Principal Expert to       ISO/IEC JTC1 SC37 WG2 Biometric Technical Interfaces and played a major       part in developing       published ISO/IEC standards (for example ISO/IEC 19794-7 and 29109-7 for       dynamic signatures).
These are now adopted by numerous international Banks and other       organisations (for example,       Barclays, Bank of America, UPS, Interpol) as the de facto data       interchange formats for biometric       signatures [S7].
This work has also developed standards for the most       commonly used       programming structure supporting cross-manufacturer device interfacing,       the Biometric Application       Programming Interface (BioAPI).
Deravi is UK Principal Expert to ISO/IEC       JTC1 SC37 WG3 and       was instrumental to work on ISO/IEC 24722:2007 on for multibiometric       fusion.
His work on       International Standard ISO/IEC 19794-5 (Face Data Format) has contributed       to the relaxation of       image capture constraints for UK Passports and influenced accepted       standards for image       acquisition for e-passports and other access control applications       worldwide.
(C) Wider influence.
We have made a significant impact on public       policy, practitioners and       professional services.
We have provided advice to Government across all       its biometrics-related       activities, ranging from technology implementation to ethical and privacy       issues [S8] through       membership of the Biometrics Assurance Group (Fairhurst), the Home Office       Biometrics Experts       Group (Fairhurst) and the broader Biometrics Working Group (Deravi,       Fairhurst) and we have       undertaken data collection and analysis for the National Policing       Improvement Agency (NPIA) to       inform Police face image capture (Deravi, Fairhurst).
We have represented       the academic       community on several Government-sponsored, industry-oriented Missions -       for example to the US       (Fairhurst), Japan (Fairhurst), China (Howells), providing important       international market intelligence       and specific information to inform UK biometrics industry development.
Deravi has spearheaded       the formation of the BioSecure Association, a research charity       disseminating biometrics       databases/tools, ensuring a legacy from the EU BioSecure Network of       Excellence.
Fairhurst is a       member of the international committee overseeing the IEEE Certified       Biometrics Professional       programme, offering opportunities for practising biometrics professionals       to have their skills       internationally recognised [S9].
These examples demonstrate the       significant impact of the Kent       Group on the wider biometrics community, a major influence on policy and       practice development,       and extensive support of professionalisation activities.
