     Overview of impacts     The methods and techniques reported here have been deployed widely       amongst retail and service organisations in diverse sectors including high       street retailing, financial services, petrol distribution, the automotive       industry, groceries and recreation.
This has had a significant economic       and social impact by facilitating business expansion and the development       of more efficient, profitable, sustainable and consumer-friendly retail       and service networks.
Many employment opportunities have also been created       for geographers to provide consultancy and planning software to retail       organisations.
For example, GMAP alone has recruited more than 30       employees from the School of Geography, including more than a dozen       graduates since 2008.
The impacts of this research are substantial and have accumulated over a       considerable period of time.
Initially, the products of the research were       commercialised through a University spin-out business, GMAP Ltd. (1990,       sold by the University to a private firm in 1997).
The company was used to       provide executable software algorithms to assist companies in the       preparation of network plans and strategies.
These software algorithms       have now evolved into two product suites that are employed by GMAP in       advising and providing analytical consultancy services to a global       portfolio of clients on five continents about the geographical dimensions       of their channels to market.
Academics from the School of Geography have       also continued to provide advice and models independently to both       corporate and public sector clients.
Use of the models by GMAP to advise an international portfolio of         retailers     Since 2008, GMAP, part of Callcredit Information Group PLC, has embedded       the consumer modelling techniques developed in the School into two key       product suites - Microvision (2010) and Retailvision (2011) - that it uses       with a variety of clients around the world.
Annual turnover of each       product suite is around [text removed for publication].
Dissemination and       impact has been facilitated through GMAP, with which the School has       maintained close ties.
The GMAP products are capable of examining a range       of issues related to retail channels strategy with diverse impacts ranging       from property management and financial planning to marketing and       promotion, logistics and merchandising.
They work by bringing together a       variety of data about consumers, retailers, accessibility, brands and so       on to populate the spatial models described above.
These models are then       deployed to address a range of tactical and strategic issues relating to       the geographical aspects of the retailer's channels to market [A].
Examples include:     (i) Adidas has been using Microvision since 2008 to develop a presence       and branded store concept in the Asia Pacific region.
This includes work       in Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Australia, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore,       India and Vietnam and the development of a physical network plan for the       Chinese market, studying 45 cities.
(ii) Volkswagen Group (since 2010): using Microvision to plan an       integrated dealer network strategy for its four brands - VW, Audi, Seat       and Skoda - across Europe and most recently India.
This has enabled       Volkswagen Group to align the dealer networks and provides specific       recommendations for dealer openings/relocations/closures to achieve future       sales targets.
These plans are developed in collaboration with local       National Sales Companies and Importers and once signed off provide the       blueprint for dealer network change and are monitored by Volkswagen Group.
(iii) ExxonMobil (EM): GMAP is the longstanding global supplier of retail       forecourt network planning for Exxon-Mobil (since 2001).
Systems have been       provided to EM in many strategic markets across Europe, in Canada, in       Asia-Pacific, including Japan, Malaysia and Singapore as well as in South       and Central America, including Brazil.
Microvision enables EM to plan the       full forecourt offer including fuel, convenience stores, quick-service       restaurants and car wash.     (iv) Other clients using Microvision include Greggs, Ladbrokes, Clarks,       John Lewis, Camelot and Mothercare.
The Japanese subsidiary of GMAP has developed its own version of       Microvision which uses the Leeds modelling tools to assist a range of       clients including EMG Marketing, Adidas, Rockport, and L'Oreal [B].
Impacts on corporate retail networks     Birkin and M. Clarke have used their analytical techniques directly with       a number of clients, including Thomas Cook (2008) [C], and the       Post Office (2010-2012).
Activities for the Post Office have improved       decision-making and enhanced access to products in a network which serves       more than 20 million customers every week, and reduced costs in a network       with an annual government subsidy of &#163;150M.
The methods allow new products       to be targeted at locations with the greatest potential; financial       management of outlet performance for different types of outlets and       locations; and network differentiation to meet guidelines for minimum       requirements for spatial accessibility.
Specific outputs include a network       segmentation which was last updated in January 2012, with further       applications to an assessment of small area demand for various financial       products (January 2010) and an evaluation of competitive performance in       the sale of foreign currency (July 2009) [D] [E].
Impacts for public service providers     The OAC codes [F] are now attached to the ONS annual survey of       Family Spending (since November 2008) and to the British Population Survey       (since June 2010) [G].
The users of OAC in studies of the       provision of services include Worcestershire County Council [H],       Yorkshire and Humberside Public Health Observatory [I], and Local       Futures (a research and strategy consultancy that provides a geographical       perspective on economic, social and environmental change) [J].
This demonstrates that the OAC is freely available to users and is       promoted by the ONS.
The founder and director of Local Futures asserts       specifically that OAC provides service providers and local governments       with opportunities `to better understand your citizens, customers and       communities' [J].
