     Impacts on international climate change policy     The Leeds-led research has played a significant role in shaping key       contributions of the global scientific community that inform and impact       international climate change policy.
Our research was cited in the       `Copenhagen Diagnosis' climate science report that synthesised the most       policy-relevant science prior to the United Nations Framework Convention       on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2009 [A], and embedded in the       InterAcademies Panel statement on tropical forests and climate change that       was given to all delegates at UNFCCC in 2009 [B].
Impacts on mapping carbon stocks and forest science in tropical         countries     In Gabon, Peru, and Colombia, training provided by projects led by Leeds       has allowed in-country organisations to participate in mapping tropical       forest carbon stocks [C, D, E].
For example, the       World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Peru attests: `Collaboration with the School of       Geography, University of Leeds has been fundamental for completing the       forest biomass analysis of Madre de Dios and San Martin.
The high quality       of the science and methods, and the extensive experience in tropical       forest ecology provided by Leeds staff has significantly contributed to       building local support for developing regional maps of forest carbon       stocks' [D].
In all three countries, our teams have ground-truthed       carbon stock maps based on remote sensing.
NASA has used the Leeds-developed standardised carbon stock data to       produce the first consistent, baseline carbon map of the world's tropical       forests [F].
Following Leeds-led research analysing forest inventory data from the       region of Madre de Dios in southern Peru funded by WWF-Peru, the Madre de       Dios regional government awarded a contract to WWF-Peru to produce a map       of the carbon stocks of the region to support the development of REDD+       (see below for an explanation of the REDD scheme) in the region [D].
The sophisticated data management utility developed by RAINFOR (www.forestplots.net)       allows analysis of forest dynamics worldwide, and is in demand as the tool       of choice for NGOs and forest managers (439 registered users, 7717 unique       visitors; up to October 2013).
Impacts on research, training and policy strategies of non-HE         organisations and agencies     Training courses run by Leeds during research projects have been repeated       at universities in Peru and Colombia and have been used to design a       vocational diploma programme by WWF-Peru to train forest managers [D,         E].
In Colombia, the Botanic Garden in Medellin has used Leeds training       materials to develop a REDD+ project, in collaboration with government       organisations and NGOs [E].
In Peru, IIAP (Institute for Peruvian Amazon Research) is using the       carbon assessment approach that Leeds has developed across the Loreto       region in the northern Peruvian Amazon [G], and SERNANP (National       Service for Protected Areas) is adopting RAINFOR monitoring strategies in       protected areas in Amazonia [H].
In Brazil, NGOs have used criteria and indicators for evaluating the       environmental and social benefits of REDD projects that were developed as       part of Leeds-led research in the Peruvian Amazon, to develop principles       for implementing these types of project in Brazil [I].
In Gabon, ANPN (Gabon's National Park Service) and the US Forest Service       organised a workshop and group to make recommendations to plan Gabon's       national carbon monitoring programme.
Our carbon assessment approach was       selected to be used, including training Gabon's national carbon inventory       field teams, overseen by Lewis [C].
Research by Lewis and       colleagues has been a direct input into the National Climate Plan of Gabon       [J].
Impacts on governmental strategies for obtaining REDD+ financing     The UN REDD programme, and REDD+ in developing countries, will provide a       mechanism to support activities that maximise the carbon storage of       forests and minimise deforestation and forest degradation through the       provision of finance to pay countries the opportunity costs associated       with not deforesting; alternatively, these can be seen as payments for the       carbon storage service that these ecosystems provide.
Following       publication of Lewis et al.
(2009), the Gabon Government won a       $500K grant from the Moore and Packard foundations to map carbon across       the Congo Basin.
This resulted in a grant to Leeds School of Geography       from the government of Gabon (US$73,342) [C] to work with NASA to       produce the first wall-to-wall carbon map of an African country in time       for the UN climate change summit in Copenhagen in December 2009.
The       project enabled the Gabon Government and the Central African negotiating       block in the UN to demonstrate that they had the technical capability to       monitor the carbon in their forests, removing a key obstacle in the UN       negotiations.
Lewis presented at Copenhagen, on behalf of the government of       Gabon, the wall-to-wall carbon map of the country [C].
As part of       this scientific case Lewis attended the Copenhagen talks as an       advisory member of the Gabon Government delegation.
Lewis also       played a similar role as part of the Gabonese delegation at the UN Climate       Summits in Cancun, Mexico in December 2010, in Durban in November 2011,       and represented Gabon at the UNESCO summit in Paris in September 2011.
Similarly, in February 2010, Lewis acted as a technical advisor to       the Gabon Government at the Central African Forest Commission (COMIFAC) to       discuss how carbon storage and carbon fluxes in the Congo Basin should be       monitored.
