     Research in SoG has had a major impact on YW's asset management strategy       because, following the research-based recommendations made by SoG, the       company is now pursuing catchment management change as its primary       long-term means to stabilise water colour and DOC rather than sole use of       capitally intensive "end-of-pipe" treatment technologies.
The latter are       still used where risk to water quality is more immediate as part of a       `twin track' approach to achieve compliance in both the short term by       engineering solutions, in parallel with the longer term catchment       management solutions and is aligned with guidance on catchment management       solutions.
Such a strategy is aligned with guidance on catchment       management solutions for water companies issued by the Drinking Water       Inspectorate (DWI) in January 2013.
Other companies are now also following their lead including South West       Water, United Utilities and Northumbrian Water.
This approach is very       different from the traditional means for dealing with DOC, which is based       on capitally and operationally expensive and energy/chemical consuming and       waste producing processes at water treatment works.
Indeed, continued peat       degradation often results in an operational response to exclude some       catchments as water supply sources at certain times of the year because       treatment costs are too high.
Selection and timing of exclusions to       deliver the required reductions in DOC were informed by modelling at the       SoG during the 1990s.
SoG's more recent research on catchment management       solutions has therefore increased water security by enabling more       catchments to act as water sources for longer periods of the year.
Catchment management intervention includes drain blocking, gully       blocking, bare peat revegetation, vegetation change through heather       removal and raised water tables (to encourage Sphagnum and       sedges), and discussions with tenants and those who hold shooting rights       to review prescribed moorland burning on both YW land and on non-company       owned land which drains to YW supply systems.
SoG research provided the scientific basis for the implementation of land       management measures to reduce water colour at the catchment scale.
The       quality of the research and the case put together for the merits of       catchment management to control water colour is evidenced by the fact that       the water industry regulators (OFWAT) approved all YW's proposed catchment       management projects (which had been derived in close collaboration with       SoG) for the 2010-15 regulatory period, representing [text removed for       publication] of investment [A].
Since 2010 the investment in       catchment management meant that expensive ([text removed for publication])       MIEX advanced treatment works in five catchments were not constructed and       operated (also saving significant running costs of [text removed for       publication]).
SoG's research enabled YW to adopt a corporate strategy to       produce excellent catchments, rivers and coasts.
This strategy secures       future water resources and simultaneously saves many tens of millions of       pounds by avoiding or delaying expenditure (as part of the twin-track       approach in line with DWI guidance) on MIEX advanced treatment works in       some catchments [A].
These savings benefit YW by enabling efficiency which is also passed on       to the 1.8 million households and 13,000 businesses supplied by YW in       keeping water bills as low as possible while securing the highest quality       and safest drinking water possible.
Moreover, YW also received an       unprecedented [text removed for publication] to spend on further research       and development over 2010-2015, more than any other water utility in the       UK, as a result of the quality and impact of R&amp;D being delivered by       SoG along with that of three other research framework partners (Cranfield,       Sheffield and Imperial) between 2005-2010 [A].
Our colour risk       modelling [3] was also applied and used to inform catchment management       proposals for the 2015-2020 expenditure period that have been submitted by       YW to the regulator.
There are also environmental impacts of the implemented catchment       management measures that are significant in their own right, and that also       provide YW with important corporate social responsibility esteem benefits.
The investment has resulted in significant landscape-scale change to       upland environments in catchments delivering water to treatment works.
The       peatland management strategies being adopted help to promote enhanced       biodiversity in the uplands, delivery of obligations under the EU Habitats       Directive, and have supported the recovery of the trophic status of Sites       of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI).
Yorkshire Water own 11,500 ha of       SSSI land and in 2003 had just 9% in target condition (favourable or       recovering as determined by Natural England, the legal authority).
By 2011       there was 99.9% in favourable or recovering condition [A].
Furthermore, peatlands are the UK's most important terrestrial carbon       store and degraded peats act as net sources of carbon to the atmosphere.
However, by pursuing the catchment solutions recommended by SoG       researchers, YW are not only reducing carbon losses from the landscape       (both from the peat to air and water and from reduced energy consumption       at water treatment plants) but they are also contributing to climate       change mitigation by helping the peat to recover to a state in which it       becomes a strong net sink for carbon from the atmosphere (our research       suggests net gains of 10,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents per year       through our landscape solutions compared to baseline).
The whole systems       catchment management approach has now become embedded in company policy       which has been highly publicised by Kelda [B] (Kelda are the       owners of Yorkshire Water).
The research has also provided wider economic benefits in the supply       chain because peatland restoration companies, such as the SME Dinsdale       Moorland Services (DMS) are able to grow their operations to provide land       management solutions [C].
As such SoG led a NERC and TSB funded       KTP (knowledge transfer partnership) with DMS to support supply chain       innovation in best practice for catchment management solutions (which has       delivered [text removed for publication] of economic benefit to the       company to date) which are being applied on YW sites as well as other       peatland restoration and management sites across the UK (e.g.
Malham Tarn       National Trust site).
We have held workshops specifically for water       companies to help them understand peatland management and water quality       issues (e.g.
May 2012, supported by the NERC Valuing Nature Network and a       NERC KE Fellowship held in SoG) to drive impact across the water industry.
As a result several water companies are now sharing some data and       strategies around land management to promote best practice, including       United Utilities, Northumbrian Water and South West Water where SoG leads       a funded NERC internship in collaboration with Birmingham City University.
