     Policy     CMRC's work on trade credit and SME financing has fed into the       development of UK national       policy and legislation over a number of years.
This work has been highly       regarded by the UK       government and the small business community, which is acknowledged by BIS       [A].
The 2008       BERR Policy Report1 on payment trends and behaviour helped       policymakers understand the       significance of trade credit and its overall role in business financing as       well as the impact of cyclical       variations.
This report was used by Institute for Chartered Accountants in       England &amp; Wales       (ICAEW) in their comments to The Insolvency Service on `Reforms to the         regulation of insolvency         practitioners' [B].
The Bank of England utilised CMRC data       to track SME lending and CMRC       research in their examination of SME finance, highlighted issues relating       to credit rationing, the       credit information infrastructure and competition in corporate lending [C].
The CMRC's work has also contributed to increased knowledge of       alternative sources of business       finance.
The BVCA struggled against negative public perceptions that       equity backed lending was       linked to short-termism and increased insolvency risk; it was able to use       CMRC research to       objectively demonstrate that businesses could make better use of       alternative forms of business       finance.
The BVCA published evidence [D] and also influenced       government to adopt a more       positive attitude to private equity finance [E].
The Chief       Economist and Director of Research at       BVCA commented "This study [see 4 above] helped         address some of the misconceptions around         the PE industry and the role of leverage, and was highly influential         when meeting with         policymakers, setting fears to rest about the impact of leverage and the         need for tighter controls or         regulation" [D].
Findings from the two areas of work on trade credit and alternative       business finance were       considered by the Breedon Task Force (BIS 2012).
The Expert Economists'       sub-group were       responsible for ensuring that the evidence feeding into the Breedon       Taskforce policy discussions       was both robust and comprehensive.
The Taskforce's final report and       recommendations ahead of       the 2012 Budget included practical measures to facilitate the development       of alternative markets       and Breedon reported that UK SMEs were heavily reliant on bank financing       and that there was a       significant risk in this reliance on a single source of finance [F]       - this letter from BIS Economic       Adviser acknowledges Wilson's contribution to the Taskforce and       confirms that the Taskforce       report was influential in shaping UK SME finance policy.
A further       recommendation advocated       greater credit data sharing with non-bank providers to support the       development of new finance       products and markets to benefit business.
Wilson's research on       alternative financing was       acknowledged by The Rt.
Hon.
Dr. Vince Cable, MP, Secretary of State [G]       who commented that       the research showing that private equity buyouts performed more strongly       than buyouts using       other types of funding was useful: "This is quite an interesting         conclusion that goes against         accepted wisdom but is quite relevant in terms of the work of this         department [BIS] in promoting         non-bank finance".
The Government accepted the analysis set out in       the Breedon Report and       agreed that more can, and should, be done to build alternative markets and       unlock new pools of       capital.
Wilson has published a guide for SME's seeking sources of       funding5.
The Expert Working Group on Consumer Credit Information (2008) used       research on large volume       lenders and problems with payment resulting from individual consumer debt       and advised       government on how to improve information about individual consumer debt       and systems to       enable government/organisations make better decisions around lending,       collections and recovery       [H].
The CMRC's Debt Survey, published by HMSO, helped promote good       practice amongst large       volume lenders and was a key publication informing the Expert Working       Group.
The Independent       Commission on Banking public forum panel (2010) invited Wilson as       an expert member of the       panel.
Practice     CMRC's work has also altered behaviour in the public and private sectors.
Research on credit       information, risk scoring and best practice in debt management in the       private sector was used by       HMRC and the NAO in studies of debt management in government.
CMRC       demonstrated to the       HMRC that its systems and procedures for handling tax debt were       inefficient, as was the       standardised approach used to recovery and the lack of joint working       between tax inspectors       (responsible for calculating tax due) and debt collectors (responsible for       recovery).
Wilson's role in       advising HMRC is reported in `HM Revenue &amp; Customs Management of         Tax Debt' (2008) [I] which       also details the Government's progress in implementing the changes at that       point.
CMRC       recommended using different strategies for recovery and a restructuring of       the processing       systems, together with better liaison between departments.
Many of the       recommendations have       been adopted, e.g.
the HMRC now use two private companies to improve their       information       infrastructure and scoring systems.
`The NAO's work on HM Revenue &amp; Customs: A Short Guide' (June       2010) reports an improvement       in the telephone contact centre's calls answered from 57% to 77% (2008/09       to 2009/10) [I].
The       report confirms that HMRC improved the way it manages tax debt and new       strategic objective       indicators are being used in relation to measuring debt (e.g.
debt       collected within 30 and 90 days)       and the department is tailoring its interventions according to previous       risk behaviour, risk and       ability to pay [I].
These recommendations were made by CMRC [J].
At workshops with senior figures from major debt collection companies and       utilities and HMRC, the       use of information and the development of sophisticated scoring and       collection/recovery systems       were discussed.
Research carried out on behalf of the water industry (the       Cross Industry Debt       Focus Group; UK Water Industry Research and DEFRA) on consumer debt       recovery identified       problems around recovery and collection companies and identified 'best       practice in the sector' and       the factors associated with collection success and write-off rates.
CMRC       proposals were adopted       by the industry.
CMRC has helped to implement a Voluntary Code of Best       Payment Practice for       use at large institutions and corporations, which has been promoted by       government [K].
CMRC       events and forums have enabled government and major service providers such       as utilities to share       best practice and learn from industry as well as improving awareness of       credit management.
CMRC's research contributed to the creation of a University spin-out       company, CreditScorer       Ltd, which developed on-line benchmarking and risk management services for       businesses and       utilities.
Wilson's work in developing algorithms that generate       real time risk scores and default       probabilities also contributed to the foundation of another business,       paymentleague.com,       which provides rankings of payment performance by big companies.
5 http://www.cmrc.co.uk/conferences/alternative-sources-of-finance-for-smes/
