     This research has been widely disseminated to health professionals in a       number of NHS Trusts through conferences, policy groups, workshops and the       CIHM network.
Communication with over 300 top-level decision-makers has       been maintained through CIHM's national network of NHS trusts.
Members       have access to the inquiry reports and toolkit (see below), and attend       events, for example publicizing the latest research results on clinicians'       role on NHS trust boards and links with performance.
CIHM Director, Becky       Malby, was also recently included as an `eminent thinker' in a meeting       with Sir David Nicholson, NHS Chief Executive for England, which aimed to       discuss the options for NHS reform, including strategies for more fully       engaging doctors (particularly GPs) in managing services.
More       specifically, this research has had an impact in two main       ways: through organizational change initiatives and through training and       education.
Organisational Change Initiatives     The two National Inquiries described in Section 2 [4, 5] fed into       the development of a Toolkit for `Developing Productive Relationships       between Management and Medicine'.
This toolkit, designed to help overcome       barriers to clinical involvement in management has been used across the       NHS in organisational development projects.
The Hertfordshire, Shropshire       and East Riding Primary Care Trusts, for example, used it as part of work       with the CIHM in 2009 and 2010 to improve clinical engagement for       practice-based commissioning.
In each, CIHM worked with 20 lead clinicians       and 100 community GPs1 [A].
An online version of the       toolkit - http://www.cihm.leeds.ac.uk/drmgrtoolkit       - is also now available.
Since May 2012, a total of 62 NHS trusts and       clinical commissioning groups (CCGs), the NHS Improvement Agency and one       hospice have used it.
CIHM maintain a register of toolkit users [B].
CIHM has also worked with Leeds Medical Senate (representing CCGs       locally) to improve clinical engagement.
Leeds' three new CCGs are using       the inquiry research to underpin their Commissioning for Quality and       Innovation activity and early results are promising.
According to the       Chair of NHS North CCG, "Utilising the University of Leeds National         Inquiry into Management and Medicine...has directly led to robust         relationships being developed...leading to direct improvement in patient         care and more efficient working" [C].
A related initiative (focusing on organisational change) was a Knowledge       Transfer Partnership (KTP) with Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trusts (LTHT)       (2007-10) [D].
Building on the toolkit, this aimed to improve       Clinical Directors' willingness to engage in the leadership of the trust.
The KTP aimed to design and implement a change intervention that would       incentivise clinicians to engage, and lead to improved performance at       individual and directorate levels.
The programme was designed and       delivered to approximately half the clinical directors (17 delegates [D]),       with beneficial effects on the trust.
The Medical Director of Leeds       Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust said: "The KTP has been immensely useful         for the Trust in moving forward with our strategy of continually         delivering improved levels of service."
[E].
Professional Development: Executive Education and Training     The research has been distilled into training and educational courses       which have been delivered to hundreds of NHS staff via different       programmes.
A high profile example of this work is The Darzi Fellows Programme, which       was run by the CIHM in 2009-10 and 2012-13 [F], [G].
This       programme drew extensively on the research from the two Inquiries [4,         5] and included modules focusing specifically on the theory and       practice of clinical management and how to strengthen it.
So far the       programme has been completed by over 80 clinical professionals (the       majority being doctors) and the feedback has been outstanding1.
According to one participant: "I truly believe that the energised,         forward-thinking, confident clinician I've become is testament to the         seeds sown and nurtured during my Darzi year" [H].
Participants also reported that their employer benefitted from their       participation in the programme.
In a similar way, the research arising from the Inquiries has fed into       training programmes for other large health organisations.
These include: a       2010-11 set of executive education programmes for doctors learning to be       managers (including two for clinical directors at Leeds Teaching Hospitals       NHS Trust, and Rotherham NHS Foundation Trust), the Leeds-wide Senate       Programme (for 26 senior doctors) and a practice-based programme for       commissioning leads (90 GPs)1.
This training has also had an important regional dimension.
The toolkit       was utilised by the CIHM in its work with NHS Yorkshire &amp; Humber       (population 5.23 million), specifically the Leading Transformation       Programmes.
These have involved 95 senior NHS clinicians and managers       attending two training programmes1.
The first (April - March       2012) helped senior professionals communicate ideas and change within       their organisation, focusing in particular on how obstacles to clinical       engagement with management could be overcome.
The second (April - November       2012) had a similar focus, although targeted to the specific policy       context of the management of services for people with long term conditions       [I].
The feedback received from practitioners has been excellent.
A Senior       Leadership and Organisation Development Consultant of Health Education       Yorkshire and Humber said: "There is considerable evidence that this         research and the resulting knowledge transfer and engagement with         practice has greatly benefitted the NHS by bringing about the means to         improve services for the good of our patients."
[I].
Evaluations from these programmes also show a new, more effective       relationship being formed between doctors and managers, changing attitudes       and generating service improvements [I].
This research has had an impact in the upper echelons of the NHS       elsewhere in the north of England, having been distilled into training       programmes which were delivered in partnership with the NHS North West [J].
The CIHM utilised the findings of the two national inquiries and       incorporated them into a series of Board Level Director Leadership       Programmes.
Around 300 NHS Directors (including aspiring chief executives)       participated in these events1.
The NHS has confirmed       that the course helped facilitate interpersonal relationships and improve       communication between doctors and managers, gave staff the tools to better       understand their organisation, and proposed methods to enable leaders to       bring about organisational change more effectively.
The Director of NHS       North West Leadership Academy said: "We are confident to say that from         the evidence gathered, the Directors' leadership programmes have had a         positive and lasting effect on the delivery of healthcare in the North         West region."
[A].
1 CIHM programme registration records confirm delegate       attendance on all programmes.
