          Exploiting nanomaterials for drug delivery     The Kent research into nanoparticulate magnetite (described in section 2)       laid the foundation for EryDel's (http://www.erydel.com/)       preliminary studies into stability, functionality and delivery of iron       base contrast agents using Erythrocyte ghosts.
EryDel is an SME, founded in 2007 by the University of Urbino, Italy as a       direct result of the Kent- led European Commission NACBO project.
The Kent       research was conducted in close collaboration with the Healthcare Division       of Royal Philips Electronics at Hamburg, Germany using their experimental       medical imaging platforms for small mammals.
It led to the signature of a       joint accord between Phillips and EryDel relating to the development and       exploitation of the processes and materials involved.
These processes and       materials are unique, covered by international patents, and possess the       potential to significantly impact a global market estimated to be worth in       excess of &#8364;11 billion by 2015.
Together, Royal Philips Electronics and       EryDel are actively pursuing the commercial development and exploitation       of the materials and processes involved.
As a consequence of this work and       optimisation of the erythroctye encapsulation process, the company has       developed the erythrocyte ghost system into a platform for drug delivery.
It has successfully concluded the Phase II Proof of Concept Study "Evaluation         of Effects of Intra-Erythrocyte Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate (EryDex)         on Neurological Symptoms in Ataxia- Teleangectasia (A-T) Patients",       EudraCT Number 2010-022315-19 and has just announced (June 2013) that the       European Medicinal Agency has approved         Orphan Drug Designation for EryDex for the treatment of Ataxia       Telangiectasia.
A-T is a rare, neurodegenerative, inherited disease       causing severe disability.
Orphan Drug status allows the company 10 years       of marketing exclusivity from the time of approval.
EryDex also has the potential for use in the treatment for a variety of       other conditions and clinical pilot studies have already been conducted in       Europe in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic       fibrosis, ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
The Kent research team and EryDel's founders (Prof Magnami) were       co-collaborators on three European Commission nanotechnology grants       (section 3), have published a number of joint publications since 2004       (including the key reference 6, section 3) and have jointly presented at       numerous conferences.
Molecular diagnostics and forensics     The nanomaterials produced at Kent as part of the NACBO project have       underwritten the development of, and have been incorporated into, a number       of molecular diagnostic kits for the extraction of nucleic acids, e.g.
Bacterial DNA isolation (MBK0005),       Listeria monocytogenes DNA (MBK0002),       and the detection of microorganisms e.g.
Legionella (MBK0051) and       microalga (MBK0003).
The diagnostic kits are marketed worldwide by Diatheva (www.diatheva.com),       an SME founded in 2002, for research and therapeutic applications in the       field of cancer, microbial infection and pharmacogenics.
Reference 3,       section 3 is the key joint publication between Kent and Diatheva's       founders, outlining the joint research and potential impact.
In 2012 a 51%       share of Diatheva was acquired         by the SOL Group.
The SOL         Group is an Italian based multinational group present in 20 European       countries and India, employing over 2,350 people and has an annual revenue       of &#8364;555 million.
In 2011, the European Commission summed up the impact from the Kent-led       NACBO project as follows: "Materials and processes generated by the       [NACBO] consortium, particularly surface activation strategies, materials       for use as contrast agents and/or in drug delivery and diagnostic kits,       are already being commercially exploited by partners or in later stages of       clinical evaluation.
Future revenues over the next 5 years are estimated       at least around &#8364; 35 million and projected additional future revenue based       on market penetration by project outputs could be in the region of between       &#8364;100 million to &#8364;500 million over the next 5 to 10 years."
"Outputs from the project are already positively contributing to the       improvement of diagnostics (health and forensics), not only within the       European Union but also worldwide.
In the context of forensics, improved       detection limit sensitivities and better robustness in genetic profiling       using materials and procedures developed in the project are already       helping to solve criminal cases and increase individuals' security and       protection from crime.
Finally, the surface activation approaches       developed in the project are already making fine chemical manufacturing       processes (involved in the production of ultra-high quality pharmaceutical       grade materials) more robust and reproducible reducing associated cost,       time and undesirable environmental consequences."
