     (i) Shaping the EU System for Tracking Implementation of           the Disability Convention The research described in Section 2       and reported in [1] was initiated by a request to ANED from the       European Commission.
ANED, which is funded by the Commission, was       established to conduct policy-relevant research and provide the Commission       with an evidence base for its legislative and policy-making activities in       the disability field.
It is co-ordinated by Leeds' interdisciplinary       Centre for Disability Studies in partnership with a Dutch management       consultancy firm.
Priestley has been its scientific director since 2007,       since which time Lawson has also been a member of its       co-ordinating research team.
The Commission was regularly updated on the       progress of Lawson and Priestley's research on disability-rights       monitoring (described in Section 2) and provided with reports subsequently       published on the ANED website.
The impact of the research was thus       grounded on a strategic partnership between the researchers and the       research- users.
In 2010 the European Commission adopted a strategy to guide its work for       the next decade - the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020.
This       includes an express commitment to adopt the monitoring approach developed       by Lawson and Priestley as the "general principles for monitoring       and evaluating the Strategy" [A, page 40].
In addition, the Strategy set out plans for building on the       recommendations of Lawson and Priestley by developing an online       tool to assist in monitoring disability policy instruments in the 34 ANED       countries [A, pages 55-58].
The online tool was developed       by ANED and, after consultation with the EU High Level Group of States       representatives in the disability field, launched in 2012 as the       `Disability Online Tool of the Commission' (DOTCOM) [B].
DOTCOM is a publicly accessible database which is regularly updated by       ANED members and contains more than 1,500 entries.
It includes indicators       of rights in law and policy, broadly based on those suggested by Lawson       and Priestley and described in Section 2.
Currently, however, the       statistical indicators are reported separately on the ANED website.
Against each of the 43 DOTCOM indicators, information is made available in       DOTCOM for each of ANED's 34 countries and also for the EU-level about the       existence, content and location (through web links) of any relevant law or       policy.
Searches may be conducted by indicator or by country.
DOTCOM thus       equips EU and national policy-makers, researchers, disability-rights       campaigners, and others with a convenient means of locating information       essential for mutual learning and for tracking progress towards       implementation of disability rights.
The Head of the Disability Unit in the European Commission, confirming       the impact of the research described in Section 2 on the Commission's       disability policy development, observed that: "In particular, ANED's work       on data collection and dissemination as well as the development of       relevant indicators has strengthened our approach to disability rights       monitoring" [C].
In 2012 the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights       (FRA) began working on disability-rights monitoring and data collection.
The research carried out by Lawson and Priestley for ANED has       shaped FRA's approach to this task.
In the words of FRA's Head of Equality       and Citizens' Rights Department, it has made an `important contribution'       to the development of the Agency's data collection strategy in the       disability field' [D].
(ii) Strengthening the Council of Europe's Recommendation           on Political Participation     In 2009 the CoE established a sub-committee - the Committee of Experts on       the Participation of People with Disabilities in Political and Public Life       (CAHPAH-PPL) - to evaluate and promote the participation of persons with       disabilities in political and public life.
In March 2011 Lawson       attended a meeting to advise CAHPAH-PPL.
She presented her research on the       equality and accessibility obligations of the Disability Convention [2-5],       and their implications for the particular policy domain of political       participation.
She explained her research finding that compliance with the       Disability Convention requires action to ensure that disabled people are       not prevented from voting by discriminatory laws (including laws denying       voting rights to people with mental disabilities on the basis of a court       ruling or loss of legal capacity).
She also used her research to       demonstrate that the Disability Convention requires the progressive       dismantling of accessibility barriers (e.g.
in physical structures and       information) associated with voting and elections.
The Committee agreed to take account of Lawson's research and       advice, as is indicated in the following quote from the minutes: "The       Committee ... decided to take account of her comments and opinions when       drawing up recommendations."
[E].
Committee members agreed that a draft Recommendation should include       strong provisions on improving accessibility but there was initial       reluctance amongst some members to condemn the practice (endorsed by the       UN Human Rights Committee in 1996) of depriving people with mental       disabilities of voting rights on the basis of court rulings.
However,       after further discussion, and also lobbying from civil society, CAHPAH-PPL       drafted a `recommendation' that fully incorporated all of Lawson's       arguments.
This was accepted by CAHPAH-PPL's parent committee, the CoE       Committee of Experts on the Rights of People with Disabilities (CAHPAH)       and, on 16 November 2011, it was formally adopted by the CoE's Committee       of Ministers as `Recommendation CM/Rec(2011)14 of the Committee of       Ministers to Member States on the Participation of Persons with       Disabilities in Political and Public Life'.
Since then DOTCOM [B] reveals       that Lithuania has introduced new accessibility obligations for elections;       and that the Lithuanian equality ombudsman has issued guidelines on the       topic.
According to the then Chair of CAHPAH-PPL [F], Lawson's       research `helped the Committee to realise the need to have a strong set of       recommendations that would focus on issues like accessibility and legal       capacity' and was `of paramount importance to help frame the Committee       recommendations and to bring consensus to the group of experts'.
According       to the chair of CAHPAH (also then a member of CAHPAH-PPL), Lawson's       work with CAHPAH-PPL (particularly on the issue of voting rights for       people with mental disabilities) `led to' the recommendation [G].
