     Dyer's global perspective and local analyses of exclusionary education       practices and research-led models of inclusive alternatives have informed       public policy-making, influenced international and national policy debates       and underpinned civil society advocacy for policy change.
Kenya: The commissioned EfN report [5] was presented in January       2010 to a workshop attended by 90 representatives from Kenyan national and       local government, international donor agencies and pastoralist       organisations.
The report and the workshop provided the impetus necessary       for the publication of a pending Kenyan government policy on nomad       education in 2010, and they continue to frame policy in this area [A].
Participants at the 2010 workshop discussed and endorsed the EfN       recommendations that arose from the Kr&#228;tli and Dyer review [4];       Swift subsequently wrote up the strategy that had been outlined to deliver       the policy objectives - a fully- costed programme of formal education via       radio which was projected to reach over 300,000 excluded pastoralist       children [B].
The Minister of State for the Development of Northern Kenya and Other       Arid Lands (MDNKOAL) wrote:     "[The University of Leeds'] contribution to the Education for Nomads       (EfN) initiative had a significant impact on policy approaches in Kenya       and on expanding the options for service delivery.
Until recently, there       had been insufficient recognition that mobile pastoralists require       different educational models that do not depend on a system of fixed       schools.
Your research positioned the need for these new approaches within       the broader context of global best practice.
Both the quality of the       documentation, and your presence at a national workshop on nomadic       education in January 2010, has helped to reinforce new thinking within the       Ministry of Education" [A].
In 2011, the EfN-initiated work passed for implementation to Kenyan       ownership.
The significance of the EfN work is underlined by its       presentation by a seniormost Kenyan education official, the Director of       Human Capital, MDNKOAL, at a 2011 international conference on The Future       of Pastoralism in Africa, and by the MDNKOAL's affirmation in 2012 that,       while budgetary constraints had hindered rolling out the strategy: `the       research had benefits in its own right - for example, in demonstrating to       the Ministry of Education that these ideas have the backing of serious       educationalists and therefore can't be lightly dismissed, and in       highlighting alternatives to the standard boarding school/mobile school       option' [C].
The Minister of State for MDNKOAL said he expected the       strategy of the new (2012) National Council for Nomadic Education to       continue to draw on the EfN research [A].
Afghanistan: In July 2012, Dyer gave the keynote address       at a policy conference where 70 delegates worked on developing       Afghanistan's national strategy for pastoralists' education.
The convening       agency, the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA), reported that Dyer's       analysis of models for pastoralists' education inclusion and policy /       implementation challenges from Kenya and India `made a very deep impact on       the thinking of the participants' [D].
SCA remarks upon Dyer's       `very outstanding contribution in enhancing the understanding of SCA and       its partners, about the nomads of Afghanistan, their educational needs and       how various issues connected with them could be addressed' [D].
The impact       of the conference and direction Dyer gave to participants is       reflected in post-conference (2012-13) preparation of a draft policy and       national guidelines for nomadic education; establishment in 2013 of       nomadic education as a key strategic priority in SCA's 2014-18 work plan;       and the SCA education advisor's visiting fellowship at Leeds (3 months in       2013) [E].
India: India's pastoralists have considerably lower policy       visibility than those in Kenya and Afghanistan.
Dyer's 1993-1996       action research (with Archana Choksi, ESRC funded) on models of service       provision in Gujarat delivered literacy skills to 39 migrating and 25       semi-sedentary pastoralists of the Rabari caste [1].
This work and       subsequent research on viable models for provision [1, 4, 5, 6] and on the       state of existing local provision [2, 3] have played a significant role in       efforts to improve education for pastoralists in Gujarat.
The president of       the Kutchi Rabari and Bharwad Committee and principal of the LD Rabari       residential school, write:     "Over some 15 years, Dr Dyer has provided us with research       evidence of how community members understand the role of education in       their lives [...] that would otherwise not be available to us.
[...] Dr Dyer's       analysis of inadequate state services continues to lend support,       credibility and encouragement to our claims for official attention to       these matters, and for state action on ensuring community members' right       to education" [E].
Dyer's research was appended to community petitions to the       government of Gujurat in 2001 and 2006 calling for recognition of the need       for appropriate provision [E] and informed the country- specific plan of       action arising from a Commonwealth Secretariat workshop on Flexible       Education for Nomadic Populations she facilitated in 2008 [G].
Dyer's research also shaped changes to provision for pastoralists       in Gujarat.
The committee president quoted above, for instance, said it       not only changed their view of the importance of education in fighting for       pastoralist rights but "challenged us to expand the enrolment" of girls,       resulting in new hostel arrangements allowing girls to proceed through       secondary education [E].
Dyer's attention to pastoralists'       marginalisation in social service provision and implications for social       inclusion informed the 2011 India Human Development Report, a major review       of development in India conducted by the national Government's Planning       Commission.
Dyer was one of nine academic experts invited to       comment on drafts [F].
Global policy impact: Collaborators in Kenya, India and       Afghanistan refer to the value of the international best practice that Dyer's       research makes available [A, D, E].
This has been the foundation for       broader impact [G].
Output 4 is a frequently accessed resource, providing       the authoritative review and analysis of research, policy and outcomes in       pastoralist education.
The Education Adviser to the Social Transformation       Programmes Division of the Commonwealth Secretariat said: "Dyer's       research in Kenya has greatly impacted the work on nomadic education in       Africa as Kenya and Nigeria have been able to share their experiences as       good practice for other African countries to replicate.
The Commonwealth       Secretariat has brought together experts from African countries with       nomadic populations, Botswana, Kenya, Namibia, Nigeria and Uganda to       prepare Guidelines for provision of Quality Basic Education to Nomadic       Populations in Africa."
[G] Dyer's 2008 edited Commonwealth       Secretariat publication formed one of the bases of Secretariat work on       nomadic pastoralists presented to the Commonwealth Ministers of Education       Conference in 2012.
In 2010, the UN's IFAD convened the first Global       Gathering for Women Pastoralists, attended by representatives of 31       countries, and the women's strong claim for appropriate, accessible       education provision, a key theme of Dyer's research, was captured       in an account Dyer contributed for the 2011 document IFAD       developed for inter-agency policy advocacy [H].
