     From 2006 and continuing throughout the impact period from 2008 onwards,       the Leeds Consensus       Statement has been recognised as a universal standard in the assessment of       Developmental Co-       ordination Disorder (DCD).
It has been important in providing a common       language and an agreed       framework for the understanding of DCD, enabling more confident and       accurate diagnosis of the       condition and subsequently more appropriate interventions based on this       understanding.
"The Leeds Consensus Statement (2006) provided much needed clarification       on matters relating to       the diagnosis and assessment of the condition, together with clear       principles to help guide       intervention planning."
Reader in Psychology, Social Work &amp; Public Health, Oxford Brookes       University [A]     Impact on practitioners and professional services       Utley's research findings and contribution to the Leeds Consensus       Statement have directly       enhanced professional practice, by helping provide robust and accurate       diagnostic understanding       for the identification of DCD, applied by educational and health       clinicians and practitioners across       the world.
The Leeds Consensus Statement's influence on professional services and       standards can be       evidenced by the sale of over 2000 copies of the statement (890 of these       were after 2008) [B],       indicating its adoption by large numbers of practitioners to guide their       work.
It has also been       adopted as the official diagnostic criterion for DCD by national and       international bodies, with its       recommendations applied in the UK (Royal College of Paediatrics and Child       Health, College of       Occupational Therapists, National Association of Special Educational Needs       and The Dyspraxia       Foundation), Netherlands [C], Canada (CanChild Centre for       Childhood Disability, McMaster       University), and USA.
These bodies include the European Academy for       Childhood Disability [D],       which is an association of professionals working with children with       disability throughout Europe,       and the Dyscovery Centre, a centre of excellence in the UK for children       and adults with specific       learning difficulties.
Initially set up to co-ordinate services for       children across the UK, the       Dyscovery Centre now sees children and adults from as far afield as       Ecuador, Hong Kong and the       UAE, successfully treating thousands of children and training over 10,000       health and educational       professionals.
"The DCD Consensus Statement has been used since its publication as the       official diagnostic       criterion by healthcare professionals, it is used to define best practice       and has been integral to the       delivery of healthcare and educational services to children affected by       this disorder" [E]       Pediatrician and Director, The Dyscovery Centre, University of Wales.
The establishment of the Leeds Consensus Statement as an internationally       reliable working       definition of the condition allowed researchers and professionals to not       only agree on perceptions       of children's movement difficulties, but also more accurately evaluate       intervention, providing a       reliable assessment standard to document improvements in the motor       performance of thousands       of children.
For example, the consensus statement was used by a team in       Germany, who then       conducted the largest survey of diagnosis, assessment and intervention       methods for children with       DCD based on the criteria identified in the Leeds Consensus Statement.
Their findings were then       published as the Swiss-German guidelines in 2011 [F].
Beyond its initial impact in establishing a new working definition and a       new universal standard in       the diagnosis and assessment of DCD, the research also continues to inform       debate.
Together       with the improved professional practices as a result of the Leeds       Consensus Statement, the       research findings are captured again in an updated version of the       Consensus in 2012 [E], led by       the European Academy for Childhood Disability [D].
These       guidelines will continue to help ensure       consistency in the way that DCD is diagnosed, as well as informing future       intervention strategies.
This has been recognised by a number of agencies as demonstrated by the       quote below.
"There is detailed guidance and discussion about assessment and diagnosis       which has been very       useful in supporting clinicians working out in the field in DCD clinics [G]       Occupational Therapist, The Children's Trust, UK.
Impact on health and welfare       DCD is a common disorder affecting motor coordination in 4 - 6 % of       children in the UK, and has a       significant, negative impact on activities associated with daily living,       such as dressing, eating,       riding a bicycle, academic achievements, and thus limits the social and       economic opportunities       available to children with this disorder.
Research about DCD is not nearly as comprehensive as other developmental       disorders, such as       dyslexia, ADHD and autism spectrum disorders.
Detailed assessment of       co-ordination problems,       early in the life of a child with DCD, enables children to be given       support and appropriate       intervention.
Prior to international agreement over the condition, some       children who were identified       as DCD often had other conditions and this clouded the intervention       process.
Therefore, by       providing a better understanding of DCD, the Leeds Consensus Statement has       not only prompted       more accurate diagnosis but improved the alignment of diagnosis and       intervention.
"the DCD Consensus Statement has been referred to widely in the UK and       elsewhere as an official       diagnostic criterion by healthcare professionals, is used to define best       practice, and has greatly       informed the delivery of healthcare and educational services to children       affected by this disorder."
[H]       Head of Psychology, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, Australia     The research has encouraged more functional approaches to intervention,       based on evidence       drawn from the motor learning literature [2, 5, 3] and Utley       has been central to this work and       approach.
Guidelines for assessment and intervention found in the Leeds       Consensus Statement       have formed the foundation of numerous intervention plans nationally and       internationally [A], so by       providing knowledge of the nature of the underlying deficit, and       subsequently facilitating better       rehabilitation, clinicians and practitioners across the world have been       able to help thousands of       children with movement difficulties improve participation in activities as       part of daily living.
