     Ichiyama's work provided the foundation for the development of a       clinical intervention that has       been demonstrated to restore standing and stepping in paralysed patients.
Specifically, a detailed       rehabilitative strategy developed at Leeds from 2007 (i) established the       effectiveness and safety in       animals of a particular regime of epidural stimulation, locomotor training       and drugs and (ii) provided       the necessary foundation and model for translation to humans.
Professor V.       R. Edgerton (UCLA)       then took the leading role in translation of the work to humans and       achieved the first recovery of       standing and stepping in a paralysed patient using a rehabilitation       strategy based on the Leeds'       rehabilitation regime [A].
The widely publicised success in the       first paralysed patient to receive this       treatment has since been applied to a group of four patients with the same       positive outcomes (i.e.
restoration of standing, stepping, bladder, bowel and sexual function).
The Lancet article in 2011 publishing the results of the first study of       the intervention's effectiveness       in humans directly acknowledged the causal relationship between the animal       study (references 1       and 2) and the later human work in its opening paragraph [A].
"Adult spinally transected rats can step only with a combination of       interventions of       locomotor training, pharmacological intervention, and epidural stimulation       (Ichiyama et         al., 2008; Courtine et al., 2009).
This evidence led to the       hypothesis that if similar spinal       circuits exist in human beings, then electrically stimulating the       lumbosacral spinal cord       epidurally coupled with intense training could facilitate..." [A].
The methodology of the human work also grew out of the earlier animal       research [1, 2, 3], with       Ichiyama's work providing the initial model for the location of       electrodes (lumbar), the frequency of       the regime of stimulation and the parameters of the training regime.
The       human study did not       require the use of pharmacological agents because the initial human       subject had not suffered a       complete spinal cord injury and therefore had sufficient amounts of       serotonin in the spinal cord,       unlike the completely transected rats in the original studies [1, 2,         3].
Impact on people with SCI     The significance of the human intervention for patients with severe       spinal injuries is profound.
The       first patient to benefit from the intervention, a 25-year-old man who had       been paralysed below the       waist, said: "This procedure has completely changed my life.
For someone       who for four years was       unable to even move a toe, to have the freedom and ability to stand on my       own is the most       amazing feeling."
[C].
The consequences of severe spinal injuries       reach far beyond mobility.
Once       stabilised, those with SCI face a series of obstacles including management       of respiratory,       genitourinary and dermatological problems.
A loss of bladder and bowel       control, as well as sexual       function, also present severe psychological and physical challenges.
After two years of unsuccessful conventional rehabilitation, the       25-year-old patient had no bowel or       bladder control and no sexual function.
The treatment resulted in the       restoration of voluntary       standing and stepping under epidural stimulation [A].
This       recovery of function only occurs at the       time the epidural stimulation is being delivered, but the treatment has       transformed the patient's       everyday life because the stimulating equipment is fully portable.
The       patient also recovered       urinary continence, bowel movements and is sexually potent [A,       supplementary data section of       paper].
Four people with SCI have since been implanted with similar       stimulators.
According to the       leader of the study all four implanted people demonstrated similar       outcomes to the first case study       [A] recovering voluntary motor function and standing ability [B].
Increased charitable donations and commercial investment       The health and welfare impacts of Ichiyama's research have been of       enormous significance to the       patients treated, and the reach of the research's impact is already       developing beyond the       immediate clinical setting.
The breakthrough based on Ichiyama's       work was widely reported in the       academic, medical and mass media and has stimulated interest in the new       field [D,E].
Charities       focussed on spinal cord injury have reported increased interest in spinal       cord injuries from the       general public and a significant rise in donations [F].
There is       significant academic activity in the       new field and the commercial medical device sector is investing in       technology to support the       intervention.
