     Babych's and Sharoff's success in attracting industrial funding and the       impact on the products, services and work-flow of industrial and       organisational partners is based on their unique combination of expertise       and their shared interest in making rapidly developing natural language       processing technologies accessible to a range of translation communities,       thus initiating wider research and development.
Their collaborative       research has opened up new business opportunities and models for       non-academic partners, and improved efficiency and consistency across a       number of translation platforms and contexts:     Corporations: ABBYY Corp and Google Inc:       Collaboration with ABBYY Corp was based on Sharoff's work on computational       lexicography [1,3,4] (on which he presented to an audience of 50       translation professionals in July 2011 [A]), and the CTS team's       work on MT technologies (5,6).
A statement from ABBYY's Director of       Linguistics Research treats Sharoff's "discovery of variation in       linguistic data ... coming from topics, genres or social stratification" [3,         4] as contributing to their "better understanding of the Web data"       and helpful in their work in computational lexicography and MT [B].
Babych and Hartley's work on automated analysis of MT quality [5,6]       led to invitation from ABBYY for an expert assessment of their MT       technologies, which gave the corporation an "awareness and confidence in       the prospects of these technologies and was used during the audit of...       ABBYYMT and Semantic Analysis projects audit by governmental and       commercial organisations" [B].
The ASSIST research into automatic Web document classification [3],       particularly the development of ideas around "Web page classification"       prompted an expression of interest from Google Inc. in 2008 [C].
Sharoff subsequently received a Google Research Award [iii], and       was invited to present the CTS team's research to a group of 15 senior       staff members at Google headquarters in Zurich in December 2008.
Google       has since integrated document classification functionality into its       searches, improving effectiveness and user experience.
Small business: Lingenio GmbH:       As part of the FP7 Marie Curie IAPP (Industry-Academia Partnership and       Pathways) project HyghTra [vii], CTS worked together with a German       translation company Lingenio GmbH to produce a technology for rapid       development of hybrid MT systems.
Using statistical techniques to       automatically build linguistic resources, Babych's and Sharoff's       contribution allowed Lingenio to harvest and annotate large collections of       electronic texts, extract translation equivalents, create lists of related       terms across languages, and evaluate MT systems.
Using this technology,       the company was able to re-design and streamline their system development       cycle and create MT products for a number of new languages, including       Dutch, Spanish, French, Russian and Ukrainian (a range previously       unattainable due to financial cost).
In addition, a new development       framework for MT systems has enabled Lingenio to add languages and       translation directions within shorter time frames.
Finally, the       developer-oriented environment created for the project has proved to be       effective as a tool for MT customisation, while the support of authoring       documents in a non-native language has enabled individuals to increase       their productivity [D].
A 5-day workshop involving 11 translators       was jointly organised by CTS and Lingenio in April 2013, in order to share       best practice and gather feedback from users.
International consortium: TAUS:       The technologies developed for the       ASSIST project have been shown to support translators in discovering       appropriate translation equivalents, to help developers of MT systems       encode rules for linguistic analysis and translation, and to improve the       accuracy of modern search engines by automatically classifying documents       on the internet.
After reading Sharoff's work [1], the Director of       TAUS, an industrial consortium whose members include major translation       service providers and users, contacted CTS directly.
This resulted in the       development of a free on-line Linguistic Search Engine for translators 	  (https://www.tausdata.org/),       containing the world's largest collection of technical translations in       over 40 languages.
This entailed the introduction by TAUS of a new       business model in which providers pool their collections in order to       maximise mutual benefit.
As the Director of TAUS confirms, "we had our own       ideas and vision about data sharing, but what CTS team contributed,       changed how we made that into services" [E].
The TAUS Linguistic       Search Engine has since been integrated into the popular memoQ translation       memory system and currently receives some 470,000 searches each month [F].
As a result, translators now import a much larger collection of documents,       ensuring more consistent and terminologically appropriate translations.
Uptake of TAUS membership by large industrial and non-commercial partners       such as Adobe, Cisco, Google, Microsoft, Intel, DELL, Oracle, Philips,       European Patent Office, etc., is further testament to the viability of       this new business model and translation service.
Individual translators and governmental agencies:       After working with CTS, the Director of Lexical Computing (a provider of       computational solutions in lexicography for several major dictionary       publishers), remarked that the collaboration "improv[ed] our understanding       of the nature of data coming from the Web," thereby enabling the       successful conversion of webpages into useful resources for translators [G].
Sharoff's research (specifically 2, 3 and 4) has       underpinned his co-edited A Frequency Dictionary of Russian       (Routledge, 2013), an invaluable tool for both learners and teachers,       providing a list of the 5,000 most frequently used words 300 multiword       constructions.
Moreover, the CTS collection of resources from the Web in       15 languages is extensively used by researchers and translators on a       global scale.
The following table shows the number of corpus queries made       by users from outside the University of Leeds in 2012: [H]                                Jan           Feb           Mar           Apr           May           Jun           Jul           Aug           Sep           Oct           Nov           Dec                             15948           44567           20783           39052           12514           10519           8745           8713           9143           14913           22789           19687                          As part of International Annual Meeting on Language Arrangements,       Documentation and Publications (IAMLADP), CTS regularly organises one-week       workshops to offer training in using state-of-the-art translation       technologies.
In these workshops, translators from large international       organisations (i.e.
UN, European Commission, European Parliament) learn       about emerging technologies and the possibilities of integrating the       latest developments in terminology extraction and MT into their       professional workflow, thus enhancing productivity.
The Head of the       Language and Technology Support Section of the Translation Centre for the       Bodies of the European Union commented that the research presented in the       workshops was "very relevant for our activities and could lead to       improvements in terms of efficacy and efficiency" [I].
Positive       feedback from participants [I] and continuing demand for new       sessions has led to the CTS workshops becoming a permanent fixture of the       IAMLADP programme.
