     The impact for this project started in 2002, eliciting initial reach with       speaking engagements due to early publications.
This created momentum       around the publication of Paris 1961 in 2006, and, crucially its       French translation in 2008.
This culminated in 2011 with the 50th       anniversary of the massacre and in October 2012, when French President       Hollande formally recognized the existence of the massacre in the context       of the 50th anniversary of Algerian independence.
Bolstered by       House's role as a central contact point for media correspondents,       filmmakers, civil society associations, as well as key individuals, the       research has had a significant impact on cultural life, education, policy,       public discourse and public services.
It has been effective in four main       ways:     Firstly, its authoritative academic argument has increased public       understanding in the face of previous official French denials by providing       significant corroboration that a massacre took place.
In legislation       seeking to formally recognize the massacre currently under consideration       by the French National Assembly, Paris 1961 is cited as proving       large-scale repression (A).This project has, according to the       co-president of the campaigning association Au nom de la m&#233;moire,       `strongly contributed' to achieving official (presidential) recognition of       the massacre in France (B).
One public historian, campaigner and       former vice-president of the French Human Rights League (FHRL) commented       that in addition to changing perceptions within French society, the       project has helped associations linked to Algerian migration and human       rights groups to `formulate their demands for official recognition' (C).
See also b, c, d and e, below.
Secondly, and linked to the above, this project is recognized as having       generated `greater social visibility' of the massacre (F), thereby       helping move October 1961 from the margins to the centre of political       debates not only in France, but also in Algeria.
In September 2012, House       was invited to the Algiers International Book Fair, where he discussed Paris         1961 with both Algerian President M. Bouteflika and Algerian Culture       Minister, Mme.
Toumi (E).
See also a and b, below.
Thirdly, this project has played a role in portraying the War of       Independence as a key moment transcending generation, nationality and       ethnicity.
The former VP of the FHRL describes how the project has helped       public acceptance of the idea that the October 1961 violence constitutes       `a shared event' in Franco-Algerian history: this has strengthened       inter-ethnic solidarity and reinforced `harmonious co-existence (vivre-ensemble)'       (C).
According to one key collaborator &#8212; a former humanitarian       worker (and subsequently author and campaigner) &#8212; this project has also       improved inter-generational solidarity by `providing an overarching       narrative that is accessible to younger generations', allowing them a       `better understanding of what their parents experienced' (F).
See a       and c, below.
Finally, Paris 1961 has helped bring about what the former VP of       the FHRL has identified as `a new social and political climate' (C),       one which the former humanitarian worker believes is `more conducive' for       former demonstrators and their descendants, better enabling them to       publicly speak out about this difficult event (F).
See also d       and e, below.
(a) Cit&#233; nationale de l'histoire de l'immigration (CNHI)       The State-run National Museum for Immigration History (Paris) has       regularly used House's expertise since 2008 because of his `authoritative'       work (D).
Over the past decade, successive French governments have       given greater policy priority to the public recognition of the experience       of immigrants, which is seen to promote social cohesion.
On 13/10/11,       House delivered a public lecture on the subject of October 1961 at the       CNHI, which was recorded as a podcast and has been downloaded 521 times       since November 2011.
It has also been added to the France Inter radio       station webpage (G).
(b) Radio and print journalists (France, Algeria, United Arab Emirates         [UAE])       House has intervened in the public debates on the Franco-Algerian colonial       past by providing expert analysis and generating approximately twenty       interviews for national radio, newspapers, TV, documentaries and websites.
He was interviewed on national French state television (France 2) news on       17/10/11 (average audience 3 million), participated in an hour-long live       debate on La Fabrique de l'Histoire on France-Culture, France's       equivalent of Radio 4, (brodcast 15/12/10), and was included in an       hour-long documentary programme La Marche du monde on Radio France       Internationale, France's equivalent of the BBC World Service (broadcast       27/10 /12).
House also appeared on live Algerian national radio (Radio       Alg&#233;rie internationale, 17/10/12), was interviewed by Le Monde       newspaper (Culture et id&#233;es supplement, 15/10/11 - average       circulation approx.
340,000) and the Algerian Arabic-language daily El-Khabar       (25/12/12).
He was also cited in an article in the UAE newspaper The         National, published 19/3/12.
(c) Civil society associations (France, Algeria)       The project prioritized and directly supported initiatives with groups       containing a strong Algerian presence, helping older and younger       generations to understand October 1961.
House gave presentations, produced       written content and acted as a research consultant for events organised by       civil society groups such as the Cercle des Alg&#233;riens et         Franco-Alg&#233;riens en Rh&#244;ne Alpes (Lyon), Au nom de la m&#233;moire,       Ancrages and Harkis et droits de l'homme, in addition to a       number of town councils and local associations, and the Amirat Foundation       in Algiers.
His specialist support has `very usefully reinforced'       these initiatives (F).
(d) Documentary film-makers and writers       House has provided specialist advice to four documentary films, including       Ici on noie les Alg&#233;riens (2011), which was shown across France       (House spoke to an audience of 450 at the film's gala preview in Paris),       and in 2012 was nominated for a C&#233;sar and released on DVD.
He also       supplied a contact for one of the film's main interviewees with whom he       had previously conducted interviews: this man's appearance in such a film       shows how some former participants now feel empowered to publicly speak       out (H).
The research has also had an impact in the literary world:       inspired by Paris 1961, writer Albert Drandov wrote the text for a       graphic novel relating to the 17 October massacre (I).
(e) Individuals       A former humanitarian worker in the Algerian shanty-towns of suburban       Paris (Nanterre) many of whose inhabitants demonstrated on 17 October       1961.
Since interviewing her in 2002, House has helped arrange for her       personal archives to be made available to the general public in a major       Paris research centre, IHTP (J).
He has facilitated discussions       between this person (today an author and campaigner) and head archivists       and encouraged media attention to ensure the wider dissemination of her       experience and that of other former shanty-town residents (F).
