     Service provision for autism in Leeds     The Leeds City Council's Leeds Adult Autism Strategy (2011 - 2014)       established the Leeds Autism Diagnostic Services (LADS) in September 2011       with the aim of improving the wellbeing of people with autism.
As well as       having diagnostic responsibilities, LADS provides users with information       on autistic conditions and signposts to other community services.
Murray       helped in the very development of the service.
He shaped the business case       for LADS by allowing them to argue for a `holistic,' and not simply       diagnostic and clinical, response to autism.
This secured their funding       from the commissioner for the Leeds/York Partnerships NHS Foundation Trust       and additional funding for 2 full-time social workers [A].
The interdisciplinary approach and wide understanding of Murray's       research broadened LADS' own understanding of autism beyond a       biomedical/psychiatric focus.
According to the clinical lead for LADS [A],       Murray was able to `challenge us as a team about how and why we were doing       this.
He came from a totally different view point... [and] led us to       developing a more holistic way of working.'
In addition, Murray made a       hands-on contribution to LADS, which ranged from changing the language of       communications sent to service users and the environment in which       assessments take place; through to revising procedures in diagnosing       autism.
Through LADS, Murray's approach has had a further beneficial       effect on improving the experience of autistic service users.
LADS lead       states that `working with Stuart Murray, developing this holistic       approach, means we are getting it right.
Feedback has been very positive,       especially from service users who said "no one ever understood us before"'       [A].
Murray's research has also directly benefitted Leeds/York Partnerships       NHS Foundation Trust (LPFT).
Following an initial meeting with the       Associate Partnerships Director of the Trust, Murray worked with the NHS       on delivery of events to emphasise the value of narrative in clinical       practice.
These included the city-wide LoveArts Festival, organised by the       LPFT with the aim of exploring connections between the arts, mental health       and wellbeing.
Murray organised a theatre performance followed by a panel       discussion on the role of theatre in mental health, which was attended by       arts and healthcare students as well as health and social care       professionals.
According to the Deputy Director of Strategy and       Partnerships at LPFT, who is also the LoveArts Festival Director, the       event `raised their awareness and understanding about mental health       issues' [B].
This led to Murray co-delivering with LPFT in June 2013       training accredited by the NHS for the continuing professional development       of clinical staff and other healthcare practitioners.
The training,       `Clinical Practice and the Value of Narrative,' was completed by 16       delegates and served to widen clinical understandings.
The Deputy Director       of LPFT noted that `working with Stuart has helped us by challenging       health clinicians to think more broadly' [B].
On the standard NHS feedback       summary, delegates gave ratings of between 4.3 and 4.7 (on a 1-5       disagree/agree scale) for all evaluation questions relating to the event.
National public discussions     The research has also been influential in determining the shape and       content of public debates about autism.
As a result of Murray's research       [1], the producer of BBC Radio 3's flagship arts programme, Nightwaves,       invited Murray to take part in June 2008 in an episode dedicated to       autism.
Murray's idea of `autistic presence' featured strongly [C].
Further to this, in September 2008, Murray was invited to speak at an       international conference organised by the National Autism Society, a UK       charity aiming to improve the lives of people with autism.
Murray's       session discussing current research into autism and its role in supporting       people was attended by professionals, people living with autism and       parents.
Murray's research was also significant for the Institute of Ideas, a UK       think tank which organises a festival of debate each year, the Battle         of Ideas.
In October 2009, the Institute selected autism as the       subject of one of the sessions.
The former Communications Director for the       Institute noted that Murray's research shaped the debate framework and       exposed new ideas about autism to the audience, which included people       working in autism charities, policy, academic and members of the general       public [D].
Murray was also invited as a guest speaker to a British Academy       conference when it marked World Autism Day in April 2012, and he was       panellist in an `Autism and Human Variation' event in October 2012 held at       Leeds Salon, a public debate group.
The co-founder of the Salon noted that       the debate, founded on Murray's findings and including NHS clinical staff,       was well received and that Murray's research had undoubtedly extended the       reach of the Salon by attracting new panel members and members of the       audience, with over 100 people attending, compared to a usual turnout of       40 people [E].
Opera North     Murray's research has led to the commissioning of an opera on the topic       of autism by Opera North, a national opera company based in Leeds.
According to their Projects Director, Opera North `had never thought of       representing autism in our work before meeting with Stuart' [F].
With the       opera expected to premier in 2014/15, the immediate impact has been on the       conception of, artistic approach of, and understanding of those working in       preparing, the opera.
Murray's `research on the social/political aspects       of autism and also the artistic representation of autism in a wide variety       of forms, in film and theatre and other art forms.
.
.
gave us a framework       for what to work towards and what to work against in developing the piece.
It really gave us a broader, deeper understanding of the subject' [F].
In particular, Murray's concept of `autistic presence' has directly       influenced creative practices.
First, it ensured that the opera was       represented from an autistic point of view.
Secondly the decision was made       to depict the autistic child on stage with a puppet, since, the company       decided, they `didn't want audiences to engage with an actor pretending to       be autistic, we wanted them to engage with the experience of autism.
It's       Stuart's research on other cultural representations that has brought us to       that conclusion' [F].
In using Murray's research Opera North in turn feel       they are increasing their cultural capital both in national debates about       disability and in innovative aesthetics, and further that they are doing       something radically new in combining these: `we are not aware of any other       musical theatre work in this territory, so it's really groundbreaking'       [F].
