     Engagement with the public and with public institutions was both       intrinsic to the research and a       marked form of impact.
As `Whose Voices?'
matured alongside `Voices of the       UK', a distinguishing       feature of the venture became ongoing feedback between the collaborating       partners of Leeds       University, the BBC and the BL.
Upton's research into vernacular language       helped the BBC and       BL to develop strong relationships with communities by way of the language       varieties that       characterise them.
For the purposes of this case study, the impacts have       been differentiated into     (i) benefits for public understanding and (ii) benefits for professional       practice, although given the       educational and cultural remits of the key partners, these are necessarily       intertwined.
i. Informing the public understanding of dialect variation     The reach of the projects was significant.
Creating participation in BBC       `Voices' and making a       regional vocabulary archive of c.730,000 items available, `Whose Voices?'
encouraged and       informed national debate on regionalism and local identity.
Over 84,000       individuals contributed,       with a website (still live: http://www.bbc.co.uk/voices/)       enabling the public to input material directly       producing over 8,500 online contributions of data, including 1,201       recorded speakers in 302       interviews.
The project was given 10 broadcast hours of TV and 200 hours       of radio time, including       7 x R4 programmes at peak times and a dedicated `Voices Week' across BBC       local and regional       networks.
A further 111 newspaper articles reached a 43.7 million       readership [A].
Significant community-focused public benefits were recognised in the       British Academy's booklet,       which was launched in the House of Commons as part of Universities Week       (17 June 2010) [A].
As       one of 10 case studies and the only representative of English studies,       `Whose Voices?'
illustrated       how arts research contributed to social empowerment and how `words,       accents and dialects reveal       much about our national and community identities.'
Upton's insights on dialectical variation stimulated public institutions       to reach widely into       communities.
No other BBC project `has reached so far, into so many       communities' [C].
An online       Voices map (http://www.bbc.co.uk/voices/results/wordmap/)       created engagement throughout the       UK to share information `about communities to communities all over the       UK.'
Upton developed an       editorial brief to train local audio recorders to capture what was       significant in everyday language       use.
Crucially, the project enriched the cultural life of geographically       isolated UK communities,       such as one village in Scotland which obtained a sense of its place on the       UK map via the       engagement with BBC audio recorders.
The process of assembling the       recordings enabled the       BBC to understand the significance of dialectical differences and to       engage directly with often-new       communities creating a horizontal, rather than top-down, relationship.
The       broadcasts and website       validated and shared dialectical differences between communities,       for example with `recordings of       Polari the Gay slang, and people... talking about Scouse Jamaican Patois,'       where previously       `outside of the groups that were using those languages, most people didn't       even know those       dialects existed .
.
.
now they've shared them and anyone can hear them       used.'
This       dissemination of dialectical differences helped the BBC promote diversity       [all corroborated in C].
BBC's `Voices'-generated materials were deposited in the British Library       Sound Archive and used       in the BL's `Evolving English' public exhibition (November 2010 - April       2011).
According to the BL       [D], Upton's codification of that material was `invaluable' in helping to       build the content and       knowledge underpinning the exhibition, enhancing the collection and making       a framework for       accessing it.
Upton's study of local detail brought new research insights       that helped the BL make       its collection `more accessible.
.
.
more widely available'.
`Evolving       English' proved to be the most       successful winter exhibition ever at the BL, attracting a wider-than-usual       audience profile.
The       research was drawn upon to generate both public events and a learning       programme attracting a       big schools audience (many schools came from outside BL's usual       constituencies), with most       events sold out.
150,000 visitors in total attended the exhibition, an       average 1,015 visitors per day,       with the majority of visitors new to BL and a high level of press interest       throughout [D].
The       research enabled the BL to generate interest in and increase public       understanding of their       collections.
Against expectations, they found that `there was an untapped       thirst for information,       and a really popular interest' in the collection [all corroborated in D].
The exhibition website, which       remains live, contains podcasts by Upton, Crystal, Barry Cryer, Steven       Pinker and others       (http://www.bl.uk/whatson/podcasts/prevexhibition/english/index.html).
ii.
Changing the professional practice of public organisations and         helping them to meet         their organisational objectives     In level and nature, public engagement in `Whose Voices?'
helped the BBC       fulfil its published       `public purposes' of `sustaining citizenship and civil society',       `promoting education and learning' and       `representing the UK, its nations, regions and communities.'
As the       largest joint partnership with       which the organisation has been involved, `Voices' represented a new way       of working for the BBC,       in sustained collaboration with academics.
The project also impacted upon       the BBC's deployment       of web resources for engaging audiences.
Informed by the project's       research on media [3, 4], the       BBC gained enhanced appreciation of its website practices.
`Voices' was       the first time the internet       was central to a BBC project, `and the way in which it engaged people from       all over the UK       probably has influenced how BBC projects have used the web since.'
The       research determined       editorial policy on wider programme development; for example the online       and interactive element       of `History of the World in 100 Objects' was directly inspired by `Voices'       [C].
The research generated materials which helped the BL to meet its       published strategic aim of       guaranteeing access for future generations.
The collection and exhibition       contributed to their aim of       `enriching the cultural life of the nation' and have furthered BL goals of       `growing the world's       knowledge base' and `promoting the public understanding of social       science'.
`Voices' also inspired       strategic change in the organisation.
Whereas previously exhibitions were       typically object- or       collection-led, with `Evolving English' the BL realised the potential of a       thematic-led exhibition       drawing on different parts of the collections.
`Without a doubt it enabled       us to explore new themes       and look at presenting collections in a new way.'
Having an academic as a       core member of the       Library Advisory Committee was unusual but with Upton's presence the BL       learned that `having       that connection to the research certainly made a real difference to the       success of the project and...       for future working, it reinforces to us how important it is to have that       sort of collaboration with       academics' [D].
