 (i) The professional development of an annual cohort of over twenty members of the UK armed forces, across all ranks and services, including personnel about to deploy overseas.
This activity occurred in a series of annual residential courses at Leeds on themes in international relations.
The UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) contracted the University to deliver these courses on a four-yearly basis since 1995 (A).
Spiers and Utley devised the course programmes, invited speakers from academic and practitioner backgrounds (including serving and retired senior military personnel; defence analysts; and members of the diplomatic service), hosted the courses, and delivered research-based papers before them.
The courses facilitated a broader appreciation of contemporary themes by reflecting the research interests of Spiers and Utley in interstate relations and counter-terrorism since 9/11 (4) and the continuing challenge of chemical warfare (1 and 2).
For the course attendees, the impact occurred from enhancing their understanding through continuing professional development.
Annual feedback from beneficiaries evaluated the courses as `excellent', providing a `completely different viewpoint to the standard military focus on capability and threat', allowing `a much broader and deeper understanding of the history and context of a region that has dominated British foreign policy', imparting information `that drastically improved my knowledge', and giving `an excellent strategic and academic context to my more specific work at the operational and tactical levels'.
Courses were commended for having `greatly assisted in my professional development' and proved `vital in my career enhancement.'
(B) The MoD was an additional beneficiary, renewing contracts for these courses since they `consistently' met the `rigorous and highly competitive' criteria required in providing `valuable academic understanding in the area of International Relations to members of the Armed Forces'.
(C) (ii) Establishing a network of specialists, principally from outside the academy, with interests in UK-French defence and security.
Spiers and Utley convened, and delivered papers before, a symposium in Leeds (28-9 June 2011) entitled `Beyond Entente: UK-French Defence and Security Relations in the Contemporary World'.
Based upon Utley's research in French defence and security initiatives under President Sarkozy (4), it attracted the French military attach&#233; as well as French and British participants from international think-tanks (including the International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS) and Chatham House), the UK diplomatic service, the UK military, and consultancy firms, so disseminating research findings beyond the academy.
As representatives of SCS Ltd (a defence and security contractor) observed, the event enriched a `mutually supporting relationship that has existed for over 10 years' between Spiers/Utley and SCS, by serving as `a catalyst for the creation of an enduring network embracing representatives from international think tanks, other academic institutions and industry as well as senior serving and former defence practitioners'.
(D) Spiers and Utley extended the reach and significance of this network by hosting a subsequent roundtable of participants from think-tanks and defence contractors in London with the new French defence attach&#233; (8 November 2012).
Utley then accepted invitations from IISS (F) and NATO to address a workshop in Brussels (27 November 2012) (E); to share her research expertise with British and French delegations in NATO (9-10 January 2013); and to participate in the third Franco-British Council annual conference on Franco-British defence cooperation (15-16 May 2013).
An IISS representative commended Utley's `very useful contribution' to the November meetings, setting `current developments in a historical perspective' (F), and reflecting her research on the evolution of multilateral frameworks of French defence (4 and 5).
Her contribution was incorporated in an IISS policy paper that informed the subsequent dialogue between IISS and NATO's Parliamentary Assembly.
(F) (iii) The professional development of 100 senior military officers and diplomats at a Decision Game for the Royal College of Defence Studies (RCDS), 9-12 July 2012.
After the Leeds symposium, SCS invited Spiers and Utley (G) on a consultancy basis to participate in the annual RCDS Decision Game, testing the 90 members of the college in their strategic analysis, decision-making and media interaction.
Spiers and Utley mentored groups, advised on the development of international crisis scenarios, and delivered the end-game critique before the assembled college, one third of whom were international officers.
As the first occasion that SCS had engaged academic participants, the managing director commented that the mentoring of Spiers and Utley was `of the highest order and the groups concerned gained the benefit of your depth of knowledge', so serving `to further enhance the corporate reputation of SCS in the international marketplace'.
(H) For SCS, the `body of research' of Spiers and Utley `was particularly pertinent to some of the scenario events with Dr Utley being exceptionally well-placed to offer insight into the issues underpinning the French defence debate and Professor Spiers poised to assist the players in the analysis of their country's vulnerability to chemical and biological attack'.
Their `key strategic insights constituted a new dimension of the final analysis of decision-making throughout the game'.
(I) Consequently, the reach of this impact activity encompasses beneficiaries including serving military personnel, the MoD, think-tank and commercial consultants, as well as high-level practitioners and policy makers through the RCDS Decision Game.
This impact has significance by enhancing the professional development of armed service personnel, and by its value for think-tanks and consultants as well as future leaders and top advisers, through the expertise disseminated and professional advice given.
