     The Public Information Centre (PIC) network that is the vehicle for the       impact emerges from Gould's research in two ways.
Firstly, the PIC network       emerged from discussions between Gould and the head of Asha Parivar (AP)       from September 2010.
Gould took a leading role, alongside key figures in       AP, in making it happen and continues to have day-to-day involvement in       its development (B, C, D).
Secondly, the form that the PIC network took       emerges from Gould's research which identified an infrastructure that       would: i) systematically give public access to information to form the       basis of challenges to local corruption; ii) coordinate grass-roots       efforts across different localities and facilitate and plan effective       appeals up the administrative hierarchy and outside the reach of existing       government servant webs of influence; iii) organise public exposure for       campaigns and help build an inter-connected, institutionally backed public       culture of anti-corruption.
Interaction between Gould and AP involved a trail of over 60 emails [C],       involving India-based co- ordinators, volunteers and the head of AP.
It       also involved skype/phone calls and conference calls, and planning visits       by Gould to India.
In Hindi the project is called Janta Suchna Kendra       (JSK), and has the following forms of impact:     Enhancement of knowledge and skills of Third Sector organisations     The head of AP states: `William Gould's research on his book, Bureaucracy,         Community and Influence: Society and the state in India, 1930-1960s       (London: Routledge, 2011) and his interaction with the head of AP which       grew out of that research between 2005 and 2012, led to and influenced the       development of the Public Information Project.
This project has resulted       in five [now six] manned computer centres or booths, which local people       can visit to gather information on public projects and to file Right to       Information (RTI) applications.
The latter have been very effective in       both preventing and remedying problems associated with corruption in local       government, which includes loss to government development projects.
In       particular, Gould's research and book on the history of anti-corruption       and the significance of citizen's access to information about local       government activity has been important, in the longer term, in the       promotion of the Right to Information applications through the centres'.
[B] Discussions with the head of AP (who is a nationally prominent       anti-corruption figure in India and winner of the Ramon Magsaysay Award),       also led to plans to `map' centres and RTIs (C, Trails 3-4, pp.
7-19).
Changing organisational culture and practices     AP had been conducting RTI campaigns since 2005.
However, these were       organised around particular issues in localities around Lucknow.
There was       no systematic, inter-connected project to process and coordinate RTI       applications.
Email discussions involving Gould, the head administration       of the PIC and head of AP among others (C), detailed the need to create an       electronic, systematic and interconnected framework of PICs.
The first       PICs (Sandila and Kanpur) were opened in early June 2012.
Others followed       in four other locations across UP and Bihar.
They provide a mix of       services beyond RTI applications, including support similar to that       offered by a Citizen's Advice Centre in the UK and basic services such as       support for writing applications, passport photographs, etc.
The       electronic RTI system makes applications available to all PICs, allowing       applicants and centres to share information and experience.
It adds weight       to applications, because higher officials know that they have been audited       by AP and that they are publicly shared (A), and allows AP to target       applications based on knowledge of the bureaucracy and local networks of       corruption.
An AP progress report on JSK states: `Gould's work on the       inter-connection of anti-corruption movements was one of the models for       the JSK and has helped to change the way AP deals with RTI applications'       (D, p. 5).
Increasing public engagement with societal issues     The six PICS currently in operation in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar serve       areas with a total population of about 18.7 million and have guided, at       the last estimate, around 1000 RTI applications (see source A detailing       and tabulating some of the main applications, and C thread 10).
The major       beneficiaries are the key target groups of Asha Parivar, the poorest rural       and urban communities, particularly low castes.
Data from Centre reports       gives a picture of the large amount of routine but important work to local       people going through centres (A).
At the Sandila Centre in October 2012,       for instance, two ration card problems were resolved and three enquiries       about old age or disability pensions were completed.
A report from       November 2012 states: `Through the centre [labourers with the Fatehpur       JSK] filed over 50 applications for work under the National Rural       Employment Guarantee Act 2005 (NREGA).
Beforehand, their requests had been       ignored by the local Block Development Officer (BDO).
However, by filing       mass applications online through the JSK, the workers caught the attention       of more senior officials', This `led to the increase of collaboration       between workers and an increase of online applications' (F, report by       intern, p. 3).
An RTI worker and user of the PIC in Fatehpur Chaurasi also       reported in video interview that `The public is getting information about       what is happening from it [the PIC]; the funds our village is getting,       where it is being spent, how many labourers are working.
All these details       are now available and people are more aware than before.
The government       people are working more cautiously because of this.'
(G).
Some of the       extensive media coverage of the scheme indicates that it is meeting a       perceived need and is seen to have state-wide scope.
Kanpur Jagran       reported, on 3 August 2012, that `RTI applications will no longer have to       be bewildering ... the JSK [PIC] serves people from all over the province'       (E).
Gould continues to partner AP in the development of the growing PIC       network (C, trails 9-10, pp.
29 - 33).
Three cohorts of student interns       from the University of Leeds, all of whom had studied Gould's research on       corruption in India (1-4, B and F), have served in the centres in 2012 and       2013 and the University of Leeds scheme has served as a model for an AP       student intern scheme in Indian universities, producing 24 interns in       total (D, p. 3).
This continuing involvement is influencing the evolution       of the centres.
For instance, analysis by a University of Leeds intern       showed that the Sandila centre, the only one run by a woman, was getting       many more women users.
AP has since implemented a women's day staffed by       women at all centres.
[C, trail 8, p. 28]
