     Schools activities     Between January 2011 and June 2013, 45 Wakefield state primaries       participated in a free workshop developed by McCleery and the       Senior Cultural Officer at Wakefield Council (a).
This activity was       delivered in-house under the auspices of the You are what you ate       project (Grant 1), using McCleery's research from Grant 2.
It was       experienced by 3,469 children aged 7-11 (b).
In the workshop the pupils       were asked to think through medieval scenarios illustrating diet, food       budgets and health dilemmas and they made a basic herbal sauce.
The       activities were structured to support the Key Stage 2 curriculum for       science and history.
Feedback obtained via a questionnaire from 61 participating teachers at       30 schools is entirely positive, indicating that the sessions encouraged       children to think about their own health and diet, as well as supporting       the curriculum by capturing imaginations, presenting new information and       consolidating prior knowledge about food.
90% of the teachers stated that       the workshop had addressed the issue of healthy eating very well (b).
One       teacher working in a deprived area of Wakefield said: `A fantastic start       to our 'Healthy Eating' topic, with historical facts they found       interesting (or gruesome!).
It was interesting to hear their answers which       reflected their attitudes to food, and the shift from certain opinions       once they had heard the facts or new ideas and participated in making       their own sauce.
I learnt a lot too!'
Another evaluation, again from a       teacher in a poorer district, observed `definite changes in attitude       toward food'.
Another said: `The class was interested in the fact that the       idea of healthy eating was hundreds of years old' (b).
The workshop has been a major success.
Wakefield Council's Senior       Cultural Officer said it attracted schools that had not previously       accessed Wakefield's cultural services, notably schools in poorer areas       (a).
McCleery's track record as a researcher, enabling her to       secure Wellcome funding substantially enhanced Wakefield Council's       capacity to offer educational activities at a time of severe funding cuts.
The project as a whole has had a significant organisational impact on       Wakefield Council, raising the public profile of Cultural Services in       parts of Wakefield where users were not traditionally drawn and creating       links between schools, museums and the NHS that would be the basis of       future collaboration (a, c).
The Wellcome Trust agreed in March 2013 to       extend Grant 1 until September 2014, awarding McCleery another       &#163;15,000, allowing her to develop these links further.
McCleery's commitment to developing school curricula was       demonstrated in January 2013 by an invitation from the Prince's Teaching       Institute to speak at a training day in Altrincham for recently qualified       teachers nationally at Key Stage 3 and 4.
McCleery's talk on       plague and famine drew on Grant 2 and was described by one teacher as       providing `excellent ideas that I can apply to the classroom to add value       and meaning for the students' (d).
McCleery has since been invited       to speak at a conference in London in October 2013 organized by United       Learning, responsible for the largest group of academies in the UK.
Enriching cultural life and enhancing understanding of healthy eating     The work in schools is related to a much wider programme of public       engagement, aimed at encouraging personal reflection on modern eating       habits through exploration of the past.
McCleery organized three       exhibitions: Sugar &amp; Spice (2011), Dark Side of Eating       (2012) and Food For All Seasons (2013) at Wakefield museums under       the auspices of Grant 1.
She wrote a large part of the text for the       exhibitions, including material from Outputs 1-5 and Grant 2 on famine,       gout, sensory perception, royal health and the use of spices, and played a       key role in shaping the content of the displays (f).
The first two       exhibitions were visited by 37,000 people.
Public response was       overwhelmingly positive, with evidence of visitors relating the historical       material to their own health.
80% of visitors who completed evaluation       forms for Sugar &amp; Spice said they had been `inspired to eat a       healthier diet' (e).
The Director of Public Health (NHS Wakefield) commented that McCleery's       research had `caught the imagination of participating children and young       people in a novel way, and that learning from this would influence the       development of future interventions in this area [of childhood obesity],       which remains one of key strategic importance for the public health       service' (c).
He described how Sugar &amp; Spice had expanded his       own thinking, informing his `own knowledge about the introduction of sugar       into the British diet', giving `historical, social and cultural context'       to the work he leads.
He invited the Director of Health and Well-being for       Public Health England to the Food For All Seasons exhibition.
The       latter commented: `History can help uncover our country's rich food       heritage and may provide a sense of context for the current challenges of       unhealthy habits we now see' (f).
These examples of McCleery's       research enriching the viewpoints of medical professionals were not       isolated.
Output 2 led to an invitation for McCleery to talk about       medieval sensory perception to neurologists at Addenbrooke's Hospital,       Cambridge in March 2010.
The hospital consultant who organised the talk       stated it `has universally been recognised as one of our best talks of       recent times' (g).
McCleery has been exceptionally active in ensuring her research       reaches beyond specialist audiences and formal education.
While she has       engaged extensively in conventional outreach work (see below), she also       ran stalls at 18 markets in 2011-13 to reach a broader public.
She made       all three elements of her research accessible through cooking       demonstrations, talking through displays of historical seasonal and       imported foods for rich and poor and providing printed information sheets.
10,104 members of the public were engaged by this activity; 82% of polled       adult visitors said they had learned something new (h).
Questionnaire       responses such as `Spices were really expensive and hard to get hold of'       and `Rhubarb is from China' indicated reflection on the contrast between       current and historical eating habits and global agricultural and trade       patterns; today the Wakefield area is the UK's most important rhubarb       growing region and most people see it as local (h).
McCleery appeared on BBC Radio 4's Women's Hour in May       2011 [RAJAR provides listening figures of 3.56 million] to discuss the       Sugar &amp; Spice exhibition and the place of sugar in our culture.
In       November 2012 she discussed the relationship between food and education on       BBC4's Calf's Head and Coffee: the Golden Age of English Food.
In       February and April 2013, she spoke about taste, commerce and health on BBC       Radio Leeds [RAJAR=235,000].
McCleery authored web pages on www.leeds.ac.uk/youarewhatyouate,       explaining key themes of her research in an accessible way (9,353 unique       visitors since January 2011).
She discussed her research from Grants 1 and       2 and Output 1 in talks entitled `The medieval healthy diet', `Medieval       famine' and `The king's stomach' at Clarke Hall Educational Museum (2011,       2012), West Yorkshire Heritage Forum (2011), Otley Science Caf&#233; (2011) and       Hull Historical Association (2013).
After a similar talk to Boston Spa       Archaeology and Heritage Group (2012), McCleery was described as       `infectious to share her subject', and its relevance to today was noted       (i).
