     NIBEC's fundamental materials research has generated 35 patents and has       been translated into a range of advanced commercialised products through       technology licensing and, more recently, via a number of Connected Health       spin-out ventures.
These spin-outs currently employ over 150 people and a       global impact has been attained with world-wide sales totalling more than       &#163;30m per year, with significant benefits to patient wellbeing (numerous       lives saved) and reduced costs to healthcare systems for patient care.
This success has led to the establishment of the European Connected Health       Alliance, led by McLaughlin, which has 150 members including Intel and       Bosch and provides a strategic consultation role which impacts directly on       NI Government and global business policy.
With an award of &#163;5m funding we       have established the Connected Health Innovation Centre (CHIC) as an       industry-centred competence centre, which focuses on rapidly translating       academic research into innovative medical products.
Our spin out companies are Heartsine Inc. [text removed for publication].
[1], Intelesens Ltd [text removed for publication].
and partially owned       (22%) by GE Healthcare [2, 6, 7, 8] and Heartscape Inc. [3] which was sold       to Verathron [text removed for publication].
All company products are       well- established with full CE and FDA approval.
The product portfolio,       based on licensed NIBEC patents, includes devices such as PRIME ECG, Vital       Signs Wireless Patch, 12-lead holter- telemonitoring, AED defibrillators,       telemonitoring platforms, ECG electrodes and a range of algorithms to       licensed companies such as Samsung, Tyco and Meridian Medical.
In       particular, our licensed electrode technology has created the world's       best-selling disposable ECG electrode [3], with $70m sales and sold by       Tyco, HP, Ludlow and Space Labs, among others.
The Automatic Equipment       Defibrillator developed with Heartsine, is the most compact AED with an       annual turnover of &#163;20m; the telemedicine based 12-lead electrodes systems       licensed to SHL Telemedicine has generated $5m sales and a 120 electrode       ECG mapping system called PRIME ECG is now selling via Heartscape/Veratron       (USA) [3].
Intelesens Ltd, with McLaughlin as current CTO, has developed a       miniaturised chest worn platform incorporating wireless, algorithms for       arrhythmia and motion detection and impedance-based monitoring of       temperature and respiration patterns [8].
After raising over &#163;6.5m of       investment, and entering strategic partnerships with Mondo (2005), Intel       (2008) and GE Healthcare, who now own a 22% stake (2011), the company now       develops a further range of patented products including chest worn SpO2       monitors, supported by TSB (2012) and pulse wave velocity sensors.
[text       removed for publication].
Intelesens and the current 44 qualified staff       complement is set to rise as manufacturing is developed worldwide via GE       Healthcare, who launched in the US, the Surveillance Carescape 300 Product       in May 2013 [2].
In 2011 Intelesens won the prestigious202f"Most Promising       Technology Award"202fat the 4th Annual Silicon Valley Technology Leaders       Awards and in the same year Intelesens was awarded class 2 regulatory       approval by the FDA authorities in the USA [6].
Although the company has       already around &#163;1m a year turnover, international sales of its       defibrillator pad range and V-patch sensor systems is increasing and full       commercial realisation is expected in late 2013 when GE Healthcare fully       launch the globally FDA approved `Surveillance Carescape 300', which       brings ECG arrhythmia recognition, respiration rate, fall detection, body       temperature and heart rate into one wearable platform [2].
HeartSine's development of the world's most compact AED was based on       NIBEC's chest impedance and arrhythmia algorithms, in conjunction with       novel bi-phasic waveform patterns.
This company [text removed for       publication], employs 80 people in Belfast and Pennsylvania, has 2 NIBEC       licensed patents and is currently exporting to over 40 countries,       including the USA [1].
The company has its headquarters in the USA and has       been highlighted as a top example of smart portable lifesaving healthcare       systems.
Recently one of Heartsines products hit the headlines when it was used in       the miraculous survival of former Bolton footballer Fabrice Muamba (2012).
HeartSine now manufactures 2,500 units a month and as noted by the Prime       Minister David Cameron in recent speeches, its AEDs are to be found in the       White House and on AirForce One.
They are also favoured by many       international airlines, sports bodies and emergency services, from Shell       Oil super-tankers to American Airlines and the Singapore EMS service [1,       9].
With McLaughlin as a Director of the European Connected Health Alliance       (&#163;500k Collaborative Network &amp; &#163;500k EU), as a member on a number of       influential Government Task Forces (Connected Health and Prosperity Board;       the NI Connected Health ECO System Board, the Connected Health Innovation       Centre Board) and an advisor to Task and Finish Groups on the subject of       Connected Health, the expertise derived from NIBEC research and commercial       realisation now impacts on core government policy and industry direction       within this sector [4, 5].
This work is currently expanding our links with       the New York State and the San Diego regions, where similar activities are       growing.
The ECHAlliance, which was set up in 2010 to follow-on to the European       Connected Health Campus, is an initiative designed to support and promote       the wider adoption of healthcare and wellbeing (including sports and       fitness) products, services, applications and innovation.
In bringing       together commercial, academic and healthcare stakeholders, ECHAlliance       facilitates focused leadership for the development of `Connected and       MHealth' markets and practices across Europe and beyond.
The scope       includes the economic development of the full range of eHealth, EHR       TeleCare, TeleHealth Telemonitoring and MHealth sectors.
At present there       are 150 members including Intel and Bosch.
NIBEC, through McLaughlin, in partnership with O'Connor (Chair of the       ECHAlliance) have played a pivotal role in establishing Connected Health       initiatives in N. Ireland which have directly resulted in an increased       focus at ministerial level, an inter-department MOU between our Department       of Health and our Department of Enterprise and Trade, changes in policy,       expanded government's Connected Health activities and created measurable       economic and health benefits over these past 4 years [4, 5].
Over 50 local       companies and over 150 organisations (www.ni-chic.org/ni-capability.html)       are benefiting from our new ECO system and the associated &#163;10m of recent       investments.
These benefits include increased employment (e.g.
GE       Healthcare investments at Intelesens with over 40 jobs), Foreign Direct       Investment (e.g.
Arc Devices, 10 jobs initially) and the rolling out of       new systems such as NI's Patient Record System involving major investment       by Orion (15 R&amp;D jobs).
In order to help deliver the impact of our research directly to patient       wellbeing and hospital economics, we have established strong links with       regional hospital trusts through our Centre for Advanced Cardiology       Research, which hosts cardiologist McEneaney as a Visiting Professor.
We       have established international collaboration through MoUs and formal       agreements with e.g.
Partners Healthcare (Massachusetts General, USA);       CIMIT (Boston) and many other international hospitals.
All of this leads       to device adoption and the saving of lives which benefits this region       significantly.
This impact was highlighted recently at the Ulster Business       Festival and Investment Conference, chaired by McLaughlin.
Much of the work at Intelesens and Heartsine has been validated by the       EPSRC IRC MATCH Centre (Multidisciplinary Assessment of Technology Centre       for Health) (BM) and published work demonstrates up to 30% cost savings       associated with syncope patients and in the case of AED's key algorithms       save the lives of up to 20% more patients [10].
Similar high impact       studies have been highlighted in the MATCH Impact Final Report in which Dr       Mary Jo Kurth of Randox (www.randox.com)       highlighted "The work that MATCH-NIBEC carried out has been critical in       demonstrating the value of the diagnostic test and has been widely used in       sales presentations and in Randox brochures thus enhancing our sales."
The       impact of NIBEC research in Connected Health related disciplines can be       summarised as follows:            Over 150 jobs created across the three NIBEC Connected Health spin-out         companies, over &#163;37m of investment and in excess of &#163;30m sales per year.
Low cost technology for critical care use which saves many lives         annually (estimated to be hundreds per year), improves the quality of         life, especially for the elderly and cuts costs.
Enhanced global interest in the possibility of home and hospital based         wireless monitoring (e.g.
GE Healthcare, Intel investments and 5 recent         inward investments)       Technology uptake by the Wellcome Trust, UK Government, CIMIT (Boston)         and various companies as exemplars of the future of healthcare sensor         systems.
New funding and business models are being established which involve         strategic partnering with multi-national companies (e.g.
GE Healthcare,         Intel); best practice techniques for model clinical agreements;         platforms for faster FDA and CE approval and encouraging the high         quality staff to continuously re-train and develop.
Moulded the shape of NI Government Strategies, through MATRIX and NI         Innovation Strategy panels and inspired a unique MoU between Department         of Health (NI) and Department of Enterprise and Trade in NI.
Our research has highlighted the value of tri-lateral partnerships with       industry (local and international) and clinicians which will establish       market and clinical roadmaps for each product family along with field       testing and rapid feedback.
