     a) Impact on Leeds City Museum's annual programme of events and on the         public     The research outlined above formed the basis for public engagement       activities which have played a key role in developing the UOA's       relationship with Leeds City Museum.
These have helped to increase the       Museum's footfall, and have brought about changes in the type of event the       Museum includes in its programme.
Impact on members of the public includes       enrichment of their engagement with cultural heritage.
i) As part of the Leeds-City-Council coordinated Light Night       (October 2010), the event Underworlds Live at Leeds was designed       by Dr Eleanor OKell (Visiting Fellow in Classics since September 2009) and       Stafford, drawing on [2] and [3].
This walking tour       incorporated Leeds City Museum's Ancient Worlds Galleries and various city       sights into a journey through the ancient Underworld.
Oral feedback from       audience members on the night indicated that the event drew new visitors       into the Museum who would visit again.
Building on this success, for Light Night 2011 the same team       designed In the Footsteps of Hercules.
Research insights from work       on the monograph [1] underpinned a presentation of Hercules which       linked ancient versions of his story with artefacts in the City Museum's       Ancient Worlds Galleries and public sculpture around Leeds.
Participants       were guided by a map, interpretative poster-points linked each       item/location to an episode &#8212; e.g.
the Town Hall's lionskin- clad head of       Hercules with the Nemean Lion labour &#8212; and actors playing mythological       characters provided live story-telling.
One stop on the tour, `Tales of       Hercules' (Stafford and actor), invited the public to hear       Iphikles' comically subversive version of his more famous brother's       exploits.
The Museum commented that the tour `represented a departure from previous       practice for the Museum' and that they were `keen to repeat' this       innovation [A]; they noted visitor-numbers of c.4000, equivalent to       a whole week's footfall in the peak school holiday period, and commented       that the event `had helped attract new audiences to the Museum on the       night and [had] encouraged them to return to the Museum at a later date' [B].
The Museum was keen to commit to further classically-themed events for Light         Nights 2012 and 2013 (see REF 3a).
ii) As detailed in REF3a, the series Classics in Our         Lunchtimes launched at the City Museum in October 2011.
These talks       have included two by Stafford: Olympic Beginnings (June       2012) drew on the monograph's [1] discussion of Herakles' role as       founder of the Olympic Games; Hercules' Choice: from ancient         Greece to Temple Newsam (May 2013) drew on paper [4], while       focusing on a particular example in Leeds Museums and Galleries' own       collection.
The Museum commented that Stafford's `participation in       the series gave an opportunity for a new exploration of the Greek       collection and its themes' and that someone with her `research expertise       could help bring the collections to life' [A].
Audience feedback       rated both talks `excellent' or `very good' and indicated that almost all       were likely to attend again [C].
b) Impact on exhibition design and event-programming at Leeds City         Museum and beyond     Between May 2012 and July 2013 Stafford began a collaboration       with Prof. John Prag (former Curator at Manchester Museum) working on an       exhibition based on Marian Maguire's The Labours of Herakles       series (above &#167;2).
In preliminary designs for the exhibition, Stafford       drew on the research of all four outputs.
Discussion with Leeds City       Museum over the same period led to its agreement to host this exhibition       in spring 2015, displaying the modern prints alongside a number of       antiquities and post-classical artefacts depicting Herakles, thus       presenting the same 2,500-year continuum discussed in her monograph.
The impact here is on the Museum's event-programming and on their       exhibition practice.
Making this kind of use of modern art in the display       of pre-modern artefacts is an innovation for the Museum, extending the       range of established practice.
They have welcomed the `exciting       opportunity... to juxtapose contemporary artworks with objects from the       Leeds and Manchester collections' [A], `to tease out different       stories... and bring to the public items that have rarely been exhibited       or are less accessible' [D].
Between February and July 2013 four other museums have agreed to host the       exhibition after its initial showing in Leeds: in the UK, Liverpool's       Garstang Museum [E] and the Cambridge Museum of Classical       Archaeology; in Germany, the Munich Antikensammlungen [F] and       W&#252;rzburg's Martin von Wagner Museum.
These form the nucleus of an       international tour which will span a period from spring 2015 to winter       2016; talks are on-going with other institutions, including Newcastle's       Great North Museum, Edinburgh University Library, the Mus&#233;e Royal de       Mariemont in Belgium and the Nicholson Museum in Sydney.
At each confirmed venue Stafford has been consulted on how the       Maguire prints might be shown alongside a selection of objects from the       local collections, again drawing on the monograph's central argument about       cross-cultural continuities.
The impact here is again on event-programming, and on the museums'       exhibition practices.
For example: `The project that [Stafford] has       developed with the Maguire exhibition in Leeds is a totally new way of       thinking about displaying classical collections.
It's not something we       have ever done before and it is a model that we are really interested in,       because it offers a way to help us to interpret our collections and       attract people to the museum beyond the normal range of public engagement'       [E].
