     Form of Global Conversations: Continuing Indaba     As a direct result of the Global Faith Networks project, following an       interdisciplinary research day in Leeds in 2010 at which findings were       presented to academic and non-academic audiences, Sadgrove was invited to       act as an advisor and evaluator for the global Anglican consultation       process "Continuing Indaba" (CI) in its pilot stage (2009-2011).
CI       enables conversations and listening about human sexuality and other       globally contentious issues; its distinctive emphases include awareness of       local context and forming relationships of trust.
Following success at the       pilot stage, CI has been adopted for wider use by numerous Anglican       provinces including the Church of England (b).
CI's pilot stage involved       dioceses from Africa, Asia, Europe and the Americas.
Its evaluation       (involving Sadgrove) was funded by the Morehouse School of Medicine with a       view to developing new approaches to inter-contextual conversations about       controversial subjects in a range of contexts, including other worldwide       denominations.
The findings and research methods of Global Faith Networks contributed       directly to the design and the evaluation of CI.
The Anglican Consultative       Council's (ACC's) Facilitator of CI describes how the Leeds research "was       significant in initial process design... [its findings] gave substance to       a project that sought to question the depth of the so called fracture...       in a process of developing transnational relationships in a global church"       (c).
The leader of the CI design team describes the distinctive expertise       Sadgrove offered in "very important, but tricky areas", such as the       transnational dynamics of debates around sexual morality (d).
Content of Global Conversations: Understanding Approaches to Sexuality     Following the Lambeth Conference, from 2008 Ward was invited to       contribute to the ACC's international `Listening Process' on human       sexuality.
He was also invited to respond to the major consultation       commissioned by the House of Bishops of The Episcopal Church USA (TEC) on       same-sex marriage; his response was presented with the consultation       documents to the House of Bishops in 2011 (a) to form the basis for future       discussions about TEC policy and practice on sexuality.
In 2011 Ward       addressed a conference of new Anglican Bishops (from India, Melanesia,       USA, Australia, NZ, Tanzania, Ghana, Nigeria) on the sexuality debate, and       gave several talks for Changing Attitude, an Anglican group       arguing for more acceptance of LGBT people.
Form and Content of Local and National Conversations     The research process had impact on individual participants and       congregations.
The project involved six Anglican congregations (two each       in UK, USA and South Africa).
More than 140 people participated in       interviews, and many more in discussions and Bible studies.
The process       provided the opportunity to speak about experiences that are hard to voice       (see respondents' comments, Sexuality and Global Faith Networks,       reference 6 above, p. 7: "I have avoided too many open discussions...       there are people who discuss the issue, but they're small in number"; p.       10 "It's hurtful to those of us that are gay and lesbian... to have the       church say... we'll hide you").
Congregations report lasting effects on       attitudes and practice, for example having "become more aware of our need       to give extra support to gay asylum seekers who are unable to return to       their home countries because of their sexual orientation" (f).
Ward, Sadgrove and others led a study day on sexuality for the Diocese of       Ripon and Leeds in 2010 for around 40 clergy and laity.
This was followed       by talks by Ward to groups within the diocese, including an address to the       diocesan synod in 2011.
Ward is a member of the Human Sexuality Task Group       of the Diocese, which has prepared a study guide for parishes, drawing       extensively on Ward's research; the leader of a Lent group advertised       across the diocese commented that the course led to "increasing awareness       of difference and diversity and ability to speak freely, in a 'safe       space', with respect" (e).
Following British Quakers' 2009 decision to celebrate same-sex marriages,       Muers produced a paper, drawing on her ongoing research on sexuality and       Quaker ethics, to help Quakers to explain the decision and understand       other churches' concerns.
This was published online in full (g), and       referenced and excerpted extensively in "We are but witnesses", the main       document used by British Quaker representatives to explain Quakers'       position on same-sex marriage &#8212; which has been reprinted several times       since its publication in 2009 (g, i).
During the national equal-marriage       consultation (2011), Muers discussed Quakers' position &#8212; unusual among       churches &#8212; on R4 Today and seven BBC local stations, in interviews       that were taken up in other media (h).
She later provided specialist       advice to the national Quaker committee responsible for ecumenical       relationships, and to staff of the national Quaker body, in the       preparation of theological materials to support ongoing ecumenical       conversations about the issue (i).
A staff member commented that in the       context of Quakers' increased public visibility and exposure to       controversy over sexuality, Muers' advisory work "enables Quakers to       communicate to a much wider audience, and also helps us to root our work       and our vision for a better society more firmly in an aspect of our       tradition" (i).
