     The need for better articulation, in public debates around       religion and the state, of the complex diasporic character of religious       communities in Britain &#8212; as well as Knott's research leadership in this       area &#8212; was reflected in her invitation to be a keynote speaker in the       Westminster Faith Debates in February 2012.
She presented an overview       based on Leeds research of Britain's experience of living with religious       diversity since the 1970s, to a high-profile audience from politics, the       public and third sector, think-tanks and faith communities.
She was quoted       extensively in national media debate as the representative of a new       perspective on religious identity in Britain, sparking discussion of how       to move beyond established arguments about "multiculturalism" (a).
In this context of wider interest in the complexities of British       religious identities, Leeds research on the specificities of these       identities has changed public representation and understanding through       work with national museums.
On the basis of his earlier       Leeds research, McLoughlin was commissioned in 2011 by the British Museum       (BM) to work on British Muslims' experience of Hajj, for the major       exhibition "Hajj: A Journey to the Heart of Islam" (January-April 2012).
His contribution was a key determinant both of the exhibition's       representation of British Muslims and their engagement with it.
McLoughlin's ethnographic research, building on his earlier publications,       supplied materials for a discrete panel in the exhibition, and an audio       loop of interviewees; he was an adviser to the curating team (g),       supported the development of educational material, and promoted public       engagement.
He spoke at a study day for the BM's members and the public on       10th March 2012, and the "Arabia Late" public event on 9th 	  March.
A sustained web presence for the ethnographic research was       constructed at Leeds, and received coverage in Hajj-related online forums       (b).
McLoughlin also provided the introduction, and advised on the       structure and format, for short films on Hajj produced by Leeds Museums       Discovery Centre, a BM regional partner.
Research undertaken for the       exhibition forms the basis of an article for the Public Spirit       online forum for researchers, policymakers, politicians and practitioners       (June 2013, promoted as a special feature to coincide with Hajj &#8212; October       2013).
The BM Hajj exhibition was a noted success, attracting 140,000 visitors       (almost double its target) of whom two-thirds were from Black and Minority       Ethnic communities (c).
The BM's Assistant Curator confirmed that       McLoughlin's contribution was "integral to the success of the exhibition",       not only in ensuring "rigour" and "balance" in the exhibition itself, but       also, through the research process itself, raising awareness of the       exhibition in Muslim communities across the UK (e).
The Project Curator       commented "Muslims felt involved... which is illustrated by the fantastic       visitor numbers and feedback we received" (f).
Working with McLoughlin's anthropological approach represented a new       departure for the BM and there are specific plans to draw on this       experience for future practice, most immediately in a redisplay of the       Islamic galleries (e).
The BM's Digital Learning Programmes Manager       commented "The audio recordings and accompanying transcripts of British       Muslims collected by Se&#225;n [McLoughlin]'s team were incredibly useful for       the Education Team in building a mobile learning application for the       exhibition.
The transcripts... helped shape the design of the       activities... Having these first hand accounts of Hajj is an invaluable       way to bring the objects alive for students" (g).
Knott's Director's Fellowship work has also shaped national museums'       representation of religion and diaspora.
In 2011 she co-organised a       workshop with the National Maritime for museum curators and researchers       (including senior curators and directors of education from NMM, BM,       Imperial War Museum, V&amp;A) on Sensitive Objects, their       relationship to religious and cultural identities particularly among       diasporic communities, and implications for handling and display.
Participants said they had "found the theme a helpful and productive one       to consider" (h).
To develop impact in schools, working with design company       Millipedia, the Citizenship Foundation and the Runnymede Trust, Knott       developed in 2011 Moving People, Changing Places, a website and       accompanying book to inform a public audience, including young people,       about migration, identities and diasporic communities.
Research by       McLoughlin, Knott and Tomalin (grant 2, above) is used to frame       discussions of religion and diaspora and to focus on Muslim and       British-Asian communities.
Targeted at KS3 and 4 for Citizenship goals on       `Identity and Diversity', the site was trialled by Knott with school       groups as part of the Runnymede Trust's project Generation 3.0.
The learning resources have been publicised by the TES, Historical       Association, Geographical Association and Citizenship Foundation (f).
The       book has been adopted by local government EMA consultants, as a training       resource on migration and diversity particularly in work with schools (i).
The continuing impact of Leeds diasporas research on public           debates internationally as well as nationally is seen most       recently in McLoughlin's British Council-organised speaking tour of       Michigan (April 2013).
The tour was planned by the Council to bring       research insights, gained from the study of Islam in the UK, to Southeast       Michigan as the area of the USA with the highest concentration of Muslims.
Activities included public events at mosques, and meetings with community       group leaders, museum directors and policy researchers (j).
