     i) Commercialisation and business innovation     A series of Graham &amp; Brown wallpapers based on the designs of Taylor       and Wood (Frames, Blank Cheque, Witness and Flowers) (a)       have been produced and are promoted in the company's in-house publication       What Walls Want (b) and are sold through major retailers such as       B&amp;Q.
As a result of the success of those wallpapers (over 120,000       rolls of Frames wallpaper have been sold since its launch in       2002), Taylor and Wood have contributed towards the       competitiveness and profitability of the international manufacturing       company Graham &amp; Brown, broadening its creative range as well as       providing opportunities for product development; `Frames' for example has       recently (Oct 2013) been selected as an `Anniversary product, with new       printings in gold metallic and pink' (c) in order to expand their       children's market.
Frames, a completely interactive wallpaper which encourages the       creation of personal artwork, has become `a worldwide success for both       Graham &amp; Brown and the wallpaper industry itself' (c), as evidenced by       the inclusion of Taylor and Wood's designs in the Cool Brands         2010 awards (d).
Frames also has been shortlisted for       numerous design awards including the 2004 Homes &amp; Gardens Classic       Design Awards alongside internationally renowned designers Terence Conran,       James Dyson, David Mellor and Toorde Boontje.
The collaboration between Taylor and Wood and Graham &amp; Brown       has led to knowledge exchange impact through a mutual consideration of the       role of business-related issues and academic-based creative innovation.
Graham &amp; Brown state that `Taylor and Wood are now deeply       rooted within Graham &amp; Brown culture', helping the company fulfil a       challenge `to develop fine art concepts into commercial wallpapers' (c).
Commissions have allowed Taylor and Wood to fully engage with       Graham &amp; Brown's designers, making use of their technical skills in       developing and experimenting with new designs.
These experiences have       given Taylor and Wood first-hand experience of the limitations of       the print/production process, and have taught them how to refine their       designs in order to capitalise on such commercially situated technical       expertise and to appreciate the commercial objectives of Graham &amp;       Brown as the company works in response to niche markets and trends.
Taylor       and Wood's visual ideas were often not in line with Graham &amp; Brown's       existing marketing strategies or customer research, but their sponsorship       has provided Taylor and Wood with the materials to carry out their       projects.
In turn, Taylor and Wood's creative practice promotes       Graham &amp; Brown as an innovative company, willing to take risks in       order to explore the boundaries of their product and broaden their appeal.
Such creative collaborations exemplify the new, emerging communications       between creative practice-based research in the HE and business sectors.
ii) Public engagement with interactive research     The wider dissemination of their commercially produced wallpapers has       allowed Taylor and Wood to make a distinct and material       contribution to wider public engagement with practice-based research.
Through the processes of participation and creation the general public can       themselves perform an interactive act with the wallpapers, facilitating a       vibrant and purposeful on-going dialogue with practice-based research.
The wallpapers have been featured in a wide range of international       publications and television programmes, for example Home &amp; Garden       and Elle magazines, Changing Rooms and The Culture         Show.
The wallpapers also have a consistent presence on the       Internet, in personal blogs, commercial and advertising sites, visual       sites such as Flickr and Pinterest and cultural reviews       (e).
There is evidence of considerable reach here, with much of the       traffic indicating that the notion of interactivity and participation is       playing a significant role in the public consumption of Taylor and       Wood's designs.
Blog comments from members of the public include; `Frames       wallpaper turned out to be the perfect way to show individual, almost       random ideas...telling a story in one place...I think this is exactly what       the designers had in mind.
'; `(the wallpapers are) intentionally open to       interpretation.
The whole concept is to invite the homeowner to be part of       the design process'.
Culture24 stated that `most intriguing are       the `interactive' wallpapers - designs which can be altered or added to       according to the taste of the buyer.'
(e).
iii) Practice-based research and public exhibitions     Taylor and Wood wallpapers have been accessioned into the       collections of the V&amp;A, Tate Britain, The Whitworth Art Gallery in       Manchester and The National Gallery of Canada (NGC).
Curators at the       V&amp;A state Taylor and Wood wallpapers are innovative by       blurring the boundaries between pure artist wallpapers and       `artist-designed' wallpapers that are intended for the commercial sphere,       and are most effective in bridging artistic and commercial boundaries.
(i)     Exhibitions at The Whitworth Art Gallery featuring Taylor and       Wood wallpapers (Featuring Walls, 2008 and Walls are Talking,       2010) (f) (g) provided educational and artistic contexts for participatory       engagement.
The Walls are Talking exhibition attracted 102,201       visitors, with visitor comments such as `this is the best exhibition I've       seen in ages...brilliant selection of work' (f).
Associated with the       exhibition were a wide range of public engagement events funded by       Creative Partnerships, the government's creative learning programme.
These       included educational sessions for schools (attended by 4,788       children/young people) and Arts and Health Programmes with Galaxy House       (child and mental health services) which 551 children and patients took       part in, as well as adult programmes `Smart Deco: Intelligent Interior       Design Course' (60 attendees) and `Wallpaper Dancers' (300 attendees) (f).
The exhibition also attracted a considerable amount of press coverage       (advertising equivalency of &#163;485,500) (f).
Taylor and Wood wallpapers were the only artist-designed       wallpapers to be sold in the Whitworth Gallery shop.
The Whitworth stated       that `this (was) a new departure for the gallery shop which we hope to       build on' (f) and that the work of Taylor and Wood `breaks with       conventional perceptions' bringing together the two worlds of the       conceptual and the commercial (i).
In 2007-2008 Taylor and Wood's pattern book and wallpapers were       acquired by the NGC.
Its influence on curatorial practice is demonstrated       by the fact that it is part of a new exhibition (Wallpower) at the       NGC in September-December 2013.
The curator of the Art Metropole       Collection at the NGC stated that the works `readily respond to our       collection criteria.
Their pattern book enables the artists to make their       "theoretical" work tangible, portable, and available simultaneously to       many people in various places.'
(h)
