 Hill completed his work for Welcome to Yorkshire over six months, ending in March 2010.
Development work continued for a further year, with Hill as consultant.
`Discover Turner's Yorkshire' began with a Turner Trail, launched in June 2010, identifying seventy sites depicted by the artist.
Each site is marked in some way &#8212; in most cases with a distinctive seat and interpretation boards directly attributable to Hill's research &#8212; all of which were locally funded and as a consequence each contributed to the local economy.
This highlighted new tourist venues, as well as directing fresh attention to established attractions.
The Yorkshire Tourism Report states: "in raising the profile of Turner, there has been considerable success in promoting some of Yorkshire's hidden heritage gems."
(c; p.ii) The Turner Trail was further supported by a number of Welcome to Yorkshire initiatives funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund (&#163;50,000) and Yorkshire Forward VOTED Support Fund (&#163;20,000).
These included:  A `Discover Turner's Yorkshire' map (e), of which 44,000 copies have been distributed and an additional 18,000 used by the Turner Trail sites and galleries.
An accompanying booklet entitled Discover Turner's Yorkshire (d) with widespread national and international distribution (c).
Hill wrote the foreword and all the Turner Trail location descriptions (h).
An extensive (and permanent) Yorkshire Turner Trails website (a).
This is built around an interactive map derived from Hill's Google Earth material and offers a range of innovative, technology-based methods of exploring the artist's Yorkshire journeys.
One of the most fully developed artist-themed tourist initiatives across both print and new media, it features:  Descriptions of each site and Turner's association with it.
Downloadable guides to local trails.
Audio tours and podstrolls &#8212; each giving audio descriptions and routes.
Geocaches &#8212; which enable GPS device-holders to seek out hidden items in treasure-hunt trails.
The hidden boxes are interactive projects, and contain a logbook to recount the visit, and often contain small `trade items' left by previous explorers.
By May 2011 there were more than 200 logged visits to sites (c).
Podcasts (e) of Hill's interviews with local celebrities and dignitaries including the Earl of Harewood, the watercolour artist Ashley Jackson and Archbishop of York Dr John Sentamu, which were widely reported in the national and regional press (c), (f).
Activity sheets for children.
Links to local organisations offering themed tours and accommodation.
Launched in June 2010, the website has had over 100,000 page views and almost 10,000 downloads (h).
With traffic driven to the site via blogs, commercial and advertising sites, there is evidence of considerable reach, with much of the traffic indicating that Turner's connections to the region are being re-embedded in the local consciousness (g) (h).
Welcome to Yorkshire estimates that as many as 1.25 million visitors had seen the interpretation boards by November 2011 (c; p.i).
Yorkshire's tourism economy has seen a 6% year-on-year increase in visitor numbers (b; p.62); while visitors to Turner Trails locations spent an average &#163;119 per head during their trip in 2010-11, compared to &#163;106 in the previous year (b; p.62).
Over half the tourism businesses surveyed thought that the Turner project had a positive impact on their business; a third noticed an increase in tourist numbers in the region (c).
The manager of the heritage site at Plumpton Rocks commented that the Turner Trails had "increased awareness of the site dramatically" (c).
The media and PR publicity (f; g) generated by the Turner Trails has been extensive, with reports in both national and regional newspapers, as well as radio and TV coverage, equating to almost &#163;600,000 in total Advertising Value Equivalency up to November 2011 (c; p.i).
Hill also disseminated his research through a series of Turner Masterclasses which educated heritage tourism professionals and owners of tourism-related businesses on the Turner connections to their location (h).
Feedback from the fifty-three attendees indicated that participants would build on the increasing interest in cultural tourism in the region through the promotion of Turner Trails to `develop/enhance their own businesses' (c; p.13).
Highlighting the significance of Turner in the region has also led to a number of specific commercial initiatives, including new `Turner Tours' organised by regional tourism companies including Wold Tours, Wayfarers and the Greatdays Travel Group (c; p.16), (g; no.30), (i).
These have allowed Hill's research to make a significant contribution to the local and regional economy (h).
This success has led Welcome to Yorkshire to consider developing further tours based on artists Barbara Hepworth, David Hockney and Henry Moore (g; no.28), extending the economic impact of this model.
