     Research based upon the constituent collections of ULITA has led to       enhanced public awareness and understanding of textile heritages among       target audiences, both local and international.
Engaging and inspiring community involvement: Since January 2008,       a particular highlight of ULITA's activities is its heritage engagement       programme for schools, colleges and community groups.
Around twenty       volunteers (many senior citizens) are recruited each year to assist with       the delivery of this programme and with other activities relating to       conservation and documentation, all underpinned by research involving the       constituent collections.
Impact has been facilitated through workshops, a       strong website presence, public talks and exhibitions, and through media       interest in the collection.
A Qing dynasty robe (held at ULITA) was a       regional selection for the project `History of the World in 100 Objects'       organised by the BBC in association with the British Museum [A],       and an associated radio interview and other press coverage led to       substantial further contact with schools and the general public.
Analysis       of ULITA's website in the five years to August 2013 shows 113,797       visitors, with the events page attracting over 33,000 views alone [B].
A selection of comments from the visitors' book (2010-2012) highlights the       perceived value and usefulness among school teachers: "Amazing resource.
Has been of immense help in teaching preparation"; "Inspiring exhibition,       of great value to our curriculum"; "So useful for my teaching, an       inspiration to my school group" [C].
A questionnaire, which set out to identify the impact of the various       ULITA-based projects, was sent to the ULITA mailing list and members of       the Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society.
Key comments/results by       users included: "through website access the resource can be enjoyed by       house-bound individuals"; "the resource appeals to both specialists       (textiles) and non-specialists"; ULITA's exhibitions encouraged visitors       to "think outside their usual interests"; the resource is a "big surprise       to the uninitiated".
Content of ten past exhibitions was judged at an       average of 4.6 (out of a maximum of 5); quality of display panels at 4.6;       quality and quantity of supplementary information at 4.2; and the overall       impression of exhibitions and the resource in general at 4.6 [D].
Informing and influencing educational awareness of textile heritages:       The main long-term output of these projects is the quantities of       educational material suited for use by school teachers available currently       through ULITA's website.
The Head of the Heritage Lottery Fund Yorkshire       describes ULITA as a "key player in the region's textile heritage" and       credits the research in raising awareness of heritage and in the creation       of valuable teaching resources [E].
A Learning Resource       Coordinator from Leeds City Council confirms over seventy participants       were involved from Leeds and Bradford in My Mill: My Heritage and       that it had been "a fantastic project and the participants still talk       about it to this day, particularly the school children, who keep asking to       take part in more HLF projects.... ULITA has played a significant part in       expanding information about local heritage, particularly in textiles, to a       wide range of people, young and old..." [F].
A Bradford school teacher also credits its educational role: "ULITA was       one of the most inspirational projects of my teaching career.
It supported       Year 10 pupils to develop a passion for Fashion/Textile Design which for       many has resulted in them accessing related degree courses...
This was an       amazing opportunity... many of our students would not have access to       projects like this without the support for ULITA."
[G].
A       Huddersfield school teacher also references a ULITA workshop, which       focused on identifying intricate pattern work, on the National Centre for       Excellence in Teaching of Mathematics website; "to stand alongside       children (some as young as 8 years old) and hear them discussing how the       patterns on each particular tile were made using complex mathematical       phrases &#8212; in such an enthusiastic way &#8212; was extremely impressive."
[H].
Contributions have also helped develop other online learning resources,       such as the textile section of `My Learning &#8212; Learning with Museums', as       well as various regional museum publications [I].
Best practice resource and international and curatorial impact:       The Head of Heritage Lottery Fund Yorkshire affirms that ULITA serves as a       model of good practice and the "Heritage Lottery Fund regularly recommends       its applicants visit and contact ULITA for advice with their prospective       projects" [E].
This is also testified by ULITA's Museum       Accreditation status, gained in 2008 and subsequently in 2013.
The       Accreditation Scheme, managed by Arts Council England, sets out nationally       agreed standards for UK museums, including ensuring they provide       "effective and stimulating learning and discovery experiences" [J].
ULITA's commitment to providing effective and engaging learning       experiences has also been recognised by the Textile Society, a UK       education charity which aims to achieve greater public awareness and       access to collections.
ULITA received the Textile Society Museum, Archive       and Conservation Award in 2012, largely in recognition of past       underpinning research and conservation work [K].
By 2010 ULITA was       regarded by the Heritage Lottery authorities as both a successful and a       sustainable project (having been awarded &#163;589,746 by the Heritage Lottery       Fund in 2003) and was requested to host an event for Heritage Lottery       management trainees in 2010 focusing on explaining the nature of those       activities with a community focus and highlighting ULITA's commitment to       community involvement.
Research at ULITA also has substantial international impact, influencing       curatorial practice worldwide, stimulated through Ars Textrina, a       long-standing international textiles conference (co-organised bi-annually       by ULITA staff), as well as the launch of the International Textiles and       Costume Congress (ITCC) in Bandung in 2011 (hosted by institutions in       Bangkok in 2013, Istanbul or Hong Kong 2015 and Cairo 2017).
Hann       is the (elected) founding president of the Congress that raises awareness       of textile heritages internationally (through the ULITA website), and is       concerned initially with the participation of countries in Asia.
ULITA       staff are approached on a regular basis by publishers worldwide seeking       permission to view items or publish images featured on ULITA's website       (recent examples include companies or institutions in India, Netherlands       and Japan).
Hann has also advised internationally on the       development of various small museums (e.g.
the University of Western       Australia); a particular focus has been on advising on curatorial       practices, including documentation, storage and conservation and in       highlighting the importance of underpinning research to collections       development, exhibition and management [L].
Future impact goals: A major contribution to impact nationally and       internationally will be made by the future publication The Heritage         Textile Industries of the World (at advanced proposal stage with       Bloomsbury) which will feature fifty case studies of textile collections       held in museums across the UK (including several of the ULITA collections)       and will be targeted at school teachers as well as the museum-going       public; the research underpinning this future work has been the focus for       ULITA's Director during the latter half of 2013.
Substantial national and       international attention, as well as future collaboration and engagement       with teachers, local schools and community groups, involving large numbers       of volunteers and interns, will be stimulated through this research-led       publication.
