     IMPACT 1: On a digital arts SME     Historical context of impact:     Prior to 2004, KMA Ltd's primary income stream was web-based design and       digital projections for large-scale popular music shows.
In 2004, KMA       approached Popat and Palmer for advice on a new commission to       create digital scenography for Phoenix Dance Theatre's production, Eng-er-         land (2005), against the company's broader strategic plan to       diversify their work-base into theatre and the creative industries.
Popat,       Palmer and KMA engaged in experimental research workshops to develop new       visual/kinetic ideas for the Phoenix production.
Popat and Palmer       were credited for their contribution in Phoenix's international programme.
In 2005, KMA was commissioned by York City Council to create an       interactive public art installation.
KMA returned to Popat and       Palmer and employed them as research consultants on the project to develop       the experimental workshop approaches further.
The resulting installation,       Dancing in the Streets, was KMA's first interactive kinetic light       installation.
The work came to life through the actions and reactions of       its audience.
Abstract, organic patterns appeared on the pavement after       dark, inviting passers-by to come closer.
As they did, their own movements       began to influence what they saw as the projected light linked them to       others and pulled them into a relationship with the artwork that invited       playfulness, creativity and improvisation.
The installation was due to run       for three weeks but the City Council extended its run to four months.
Following this, Popat and Palmer wrote a peer-reviewed research       article about their experimental work with KMA [4] and       successfully applied for an Arts &amp; Humanities Research Council (AHRC)       Large Grant for Projecting Performance (2006-8) to pursue the work       further in partnership with KMA [5].
The research question       outlined earlier (in the second paragraph of section two) was central to       this project.
Impact in REF2014 Period:     KMA have continued to employ the processes developed with Popat       and Palmer in the experimental workshops (and in the subsequent       AHRC-funded project) within their commissioned work.
Examples include Congregation       (2010: Shanghai Expo, China; Tate Britain, London), an ambitious kinetic       light art installation that that aims to push the possibilities of large       scale interactive work into new emotional and narrative territory, and       most recently their design for the feature film The Knife that Killed         Me (Autumn 2013, Universal Pictures).
KMA Director, Kit Monkman,       testifies that the film "owes its ground-breaking visual style" to their       work with Popat and Palmer.
[A]     Lloyd Newson, Artistic Director of internationally acclaimed DV8 Physical       Theatre, heard about Projecting Performance at the Theatre and       Performance Research Association conference in 2006 and asked Popat       if he could observe the experimental workshops.
As a result, Newson ran       his own research and development workshops with the Projecting         Performance research team (led by Popat and Palmer).
Following the workshops, Newson commissioned KMA to design the digital       projections for DV8's internationally touring production To Be         Straight With You (2007, toured 2008-9).
KMA's design for DV8       significantly raised their international profile in the arts world in       2008-9; an opportunity that only arose because of the research they       conducted with Popat and Palmer.
KMA have now developed and diversified their work-base to be almost       exclusively within digital light projection and film in theatre and the       cultural industries.
Monkman's testimonial states, "I cannot overstate our       gratitude to Sita (Popat), Scott (Palmer) and the University of Leeds for       encouraging and aiding our creative (and therefore economic) development."
[A]     The experimental processes developed in the research partnership with KMA       were selected for dissemination as good practice in interactive digital       design in two international industry publications.
[B]     IMPACT 2: On an international theatre company and its audiences     As explained above, Lloyd Newson asked Popat, Palmer and KMA to       host two days of workshops for him and a DV8 performer in order to       experiment with ideas for his upcoming production, To Be Straight With         You.
Newson's testimonial explains that the ideas for many of the       final projection designs were developed in these workshops [C].
Popat       and Palmer are credited in the production's tour programme and website.
To         Be Straight With You toured internationally in 2008-9, including       Australia, Germany, USA, UK and Canada.
International reviews of To Be Straight With You indicate the       critical nature of the digital projection design in communicating to       audiences the political content of the piece which examined religion,       sexuality and tolerance.
Most frequently highlighted for the effectiveness       of its visual emphasis was the projection of a large globe, which a dancer       appears to spin around himself (e.g.
reviews in The Guardian, UK; The       Independent, UK; The Stage, UK; Irish Theatre Magazine, Ireland; The       Village Voice, New York; Dance View Times, San Francisco) [D].
Countries turn different colours at his touch as he describes their rules       on homosexual relationships.
This `globe' design element was one of those       conceived in the R&amp;D workshops with the Projecting Performance       research team, as were the other elements mentioned in the review excerpts       below.
(These elements can also be seen in video examples on YouTube via       the links listed in source [E] in Section 5.)
"In a devastating bit of theatrical magic, Hannes Langolf, one of nine       powerful performers, appears to rotate a transparent projected globe of       the world.
As he speaks of the 85 countries that criminalize homosexuality       and the seven in which Sharia law may impose the death penalty, those       sections of the virtual world turn red, and some an even darker red."
Deborah Jowitt, The Village Voice (New York), October 2008.
"The use of visible text and graphics thrown across the set for emphasis       is nothing new, but here, working in harmony with Uri Omi's set, it is       taken to a new level, lending the piece an immediacy and a filmic quality       which heightens both the production's visual impact and its       accessibility."
British Theatre Guide, October 2008.
"Americans will be forced to sit-up, catch up, and may have to rely on       the impressively artsy video-graphic-projections by Kit Monkman and Tom       Wexler [KMA] that sometimes create the set around dimly lit       performers, overlaying on them like clothing, or sprayed across them like       graffiti."
Culture Vulture (San Francisco), November 2009.
Over 70,000 people saw the show in Europe, Australia and USA between       March and November 2008, and then in Europe, USA and Canada between       September and December 2009 [F].
The production won the Grand Prix       de Danse, Syndicat Professionnel de la Critique de Theatre, Musique et       Danse (Paris 2009).
Newson invited Popat to join DV8's Board of Trustees in 2010.
Introducing her to the Board, Newson explained: "Sita and Scott's openness       and willingness to share their research and resources was pivotal in the       making of To Be Straight With You."
[C].
As a board       member, Popat's role includes bringing future academic research to       the attention of Newson and DV8.
