     UNESCO's Institute for Statistics is the world's only inter-governmental       body dedicated to culture,       serving 195 member states and 8 associate members, as well as a range of       intergovernmental and       non-governmental organizations, research institutes and universities.
It       is seen as a central tool for       providing statistical analysis for policy development and evaluation in       such areas as cultural       heritage conservation; the monitoring of international cultural trade;       cultural labour markets, and       the role of culture in social and economic development.
The data and       analysis forms an important       source of evidence for both UNESCO and member state policy-making,       offering information that is       vital to understanding how culture can contribute to the well-being of       individuals and member       states.
When UNESCO Institute for Statistics agreed in 2005 that it was       imperative to launch a revision of       the Framework &#8212; its first revision since 1986 &#8212; it was critical to       establish new methodologies for       capturing cultural statistics at international and national level in order       to reflect global changes in       culture.
This involves necessarily complex intellectual and political       challenges in developing       concepts, definitions and indicators for collecting cultural data as much       cultural activity is not       readily amenable to being codified and quantified.
Moving from the       national to the international       sphere represents considerable challenge in securing the support and       agreement of a wide range       of organisations (e.g.
national ministries of culture, international       multilateral agencies).
Research demanded that any new Framework needed to address the changes in       the way people       create and consume culture, to include digital technologies and the       development of `interrelated       notions of "creative" industries' (E/CN.3/2010/21) [A].
The new       fit-for-purpose Framework would       then provide modern policy-relevant data to members states so they could       better measure the       impact and relevance of cultural policies and initiatives.
Taylor and collaborators therefore offered a new comparative lens       to view culture, through revising       the intellectual framework and existing indicators used by member states.
The process of       developing the recommendations included analytical comparisons of all       existing frameworks       (approximately twenty); synthesizing and aggregating the findings from the       team's own prior       research projects, and designing new classifications and indicators and       testing their viability       against existing sources of cultural data.
The Expert Scoping Study [1]       summarised the findings       from this work in the form of recommendations to UNESCO for the revision       of the Global       Framework.
Following the submission of the Expert Scoping Study, UNESCO managed an       extensive global       consultation on the recommendations made with UNESCO Member States, with       International       organisations including EUROSTAT, the UN Conference on Trade and       Development and the       Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.
A total of 203       countries were consulted       on the recommendations and 104 responded, with the final draft overseen by       a Steering Group       which included Professor David Throsby, the world's leading cultural       statistician.
Where the       response rate to the original consultation call was lower, further       workshop-based consultation on       the recommendations of the Expert Scoping Study occurred in 2008-9 to       elicit responses from       African, Arab, Asia-Pacific and Latin American regions, testing the       report's findings in 14 regional       workshops attended by academics, practitioners and policy-makers.
No       significant changes to the       Study's recommendations were made during this consultation process.
The       contribution of the       Expert Scoping Study is acknowledged in the published Framework, ratified       in 2009, which makes       this relationship clear, naming the authors of the report and describing       the Framework as being       `based on an initial report' by the team (p.iv) [A].
The Framework       is now set to guide the       comparisons, assessments and evaluations of globally significant cultural       developments for the       next two decades should the previous revision timetable be echoed again.
To demonstrate the relevance and application of the Framework, there is       clear evidence of its use       within the global community of cultural agencies, such as the       International Federation of Arts       Councils and Culture Agencies [B] and the data and analysis it       produces forms an important       source of evidence for both UNESCO and member state policy making.
There       is also a current       programme aimed at integrating the UNESCO Framework into the European       statistical standard       [C].
Even in its first review in 2011, Usero and Brio identify three       `significant contributions' of the new       Framework: `which', `how' and `how much': 1) the delimiting of cultural       activity (what is and what is       not included within a cultural domain) and 2) how to make these       definitions and 3) how to measure       culture's social and economic impact.
(2011: 194).
It concludes that the       new 2009 Framework       makes "a substantial contribution" to the achievement of its goals by       clearly delimiting the cultural       sector (2011: 197) [D].
