     Structural materials research involving ECRE and AMFoR groups has       achieved significant impact and global reach in varying industrial       contexts through close collaboration with companies such as Bombardier,       BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce, Wrightbus, BE Aerospace, Sigmatex, DeepSea       Engineering, Creative Composites and Eirecomposites, amongst others.
These       represent activities across the supply chain from manufacturer to       end-users and necessitate development of new technologies and processes as       well as the development of engineering practices e.g.
a "cradle to cradle       approach"     Since 1993, Bombardier has involved ECRE and AMFor in a range of EU       programmes, PhD CAST awards, InvestNI-funded joint university &#8212; industry       START programmes, gift funding, event sponsorship and, most recently, the       sponsorship of the Royal Academy of Engineering Bombardier Chair in       Composites at Ulster which was awarded in 2013.
The company has obtained       significant tangible benefits from this collaboration; in the recruitment       of high quality staff, trained to MSc and PhD in Composites and Advanced       Engineering; in advancement and optimisation of manufacturing processes,       including the introduction of surface science characterisation and new       test/analysis approaches e.g.
impedance spectroscopy.
Through Bombardier, we have established extensive international academic       links with universities in Quebec and Ontario and have gained access to       Bombardier facilities and engineers in Canada.
[text removed for       publication].
The CSeries wing programme employs 800 people directly in       Belfast at full production, with a further 2,000 employed in the supply       chain.
As of today, Bombardier has global orders and commitments for 388       CSeries aircraft, which includes firm orders for 177 airliners.
ECRE academic staff have also developed and delivered a unique strategic       technology transformation of on-site training programmes at Bombardier       enabling skilled technical and production management staff to gain       practical experience and understanding of new materials and processes.
This training programme involves critical proprietary information from       within the company and is viewed as being a significant factor in driving       significant changes in the company mind-set to create an inspirational       innovation-led environment focussed on the novel design and application of       composite materials within the aircraft business.
This initiative has been       running for five years with approximately 1,600 engineers trained to       various skill levels and course provision is also provided to Bombardier       in Canada (Montreal).
It has been stated by Gavin Campbell, Director of       Eng.
Design and Development, Bombardier, [1], that `The Ulster         programme is integral for our future aircraft systems development, with         research driving new materials/applications/processes and the ability to         provide detailed analysis of previous programs through this training         system'.
A number of senior ECRE staff founded and are currently Directors of an       Ulster commercial spin-out company, Axis Composites Ltd (AMcI, AL, JQ:       2011).
Their primary goal is to commercialise their 3D Carbon Fibre       preform expertise, research and advanced manufacturing techniques       developed within ECRE.
The company currently employ 5 staff, has already       demonstrated a significant first year growth with major contracts signed       with companies such as GE, Windpro, Thales and have plans to grow       dramatically over the next 5 years [5].
The AMFoR group can demonstrate major impact arising from long term       relationships with companies requiring metallic solutions, research or       development.
Their strong track record in aerospace stretch forming       process optimisation and material modelling has led to the elimination of       unnecessary heat treatment processes in Bombardier Aerospace.
[text       removed for publication].
Mathematical modelling has also been applied to       supply chain support and to problem solving as a service to the aerospace       sector, most notably analysing the skin component design around the       cockpit for the Bombardier CSeries aircraft.
These optimisation methods       were then extended to the analysis of Friction Stir Welded blanks for       material waste reduction in high value alloys such as Al-Li.
Documentary       validation by Bombardier of the beneficial cost impact of our process and       design improvements is available [2].
Sizeable and direct contract research funding was provided by Bombardier       Aerospace to develop reduced cost stretch forming processes for the       CSeries.
[text removed for publication].
This work leveraged subsequent       funding from various sources, supported by Bombardier, for the development       of a next generation forming technology to produce extended trailing edge       lipskins.
The success of this innovative project has led to the award of a       patent (EP2328698B1) in numerous countries (2009); the establishment of a       University of Ulster spin-out company, LenisAer Ltd, in 2010 (AL); a       highly successful exhibition at the Paris Air Show (2011); and a keynote       presentation at the 15th International Conference on Sheet Metal Forming       (2013).
Lenis-Aer Ltd won both the 25k Award and the All-Island Seedcorn       Business Competition [10].
The Ulster &#8212; Bombardier research partnership that has been developed over       the past 20 years has inspired the establishment of a new &#163;6m R&amp;D       centre called the Northern Ireland Advanced Composites and Engineering       (NIACE, www.niace-centre.org.uk)       research centre.
This state-of-the-art 3,700 m2 not-for-profit       research centre is based at Bombardier but is jointly owned by the       University of Ulster and Queen's University with full-funding supplied by       Bombardier, InvestNI and the Department of Business Innovation &amp;       Skills.
It currently has ten subscribed (member) companies namely Thales       (UK &amp; France), Wrightbus, BASE, Axis Composites, Williams Industrial       Services, ADS, Salamander, Datum Design, CPI Technologies, Laser       Prototypes Europe and Bombardier (UK &amp; Canada) itself.
The Centre       hosts up to 120 research and technical staff from participant       organisations and provides a collaborative office environment, a       composites research laboratory, materials analysis laboratories, meeting       rooms and a lecture theatre, as well as a wide range of laboratories and       workshops equipped by Bombardier and the two universities [4, 8, 9].
The       company engineering staff are co-located with academic staff and work       together to develop world-class technology solutions for a breadth of       manufacturing applications.
This co-location in a state-of-the-art R&amp;D centre establishes a level       of academic &#8212; industrial and industrial &#8212; industrial collaboration not       possible through traditional mechanisms and the NIACE centre has become an       international innovation showcase for Composites R&amp;D. Moreover NIACE       is at the centre of the Northern Ireland manufacturing sector's strategy       for growth and the government strategy to place NI at the centre of       innovation in Europe and to compete more successfully on a global scale.
The centre has set about establishing close links with the 55 main       companies representing Aerospace, Defence, Security and Space industries       in NI, who contribute over &#163;1bn to the economy, in order to develop long       term strategies and international partnerships.
