 Impact on BBC's archive strategy and approach to public engagement.
Popple's research has informed the BBC Archive's strategy and its approach towards opening up their archives, both in terms of access and engagement, and particularly in terms of exploring the potential of the archives as a basis for a public democratic space.
The Controller of Archives and the Digital Public Space for the BBC confirms this, stating that: "[T]his research has significantly influenced the development of our strategy in relation to our approach to public engagement &#8212; in particular the role of User Contributions to help describe, to augment and responsibly reuse the materials we hold.
It has also informed our thinking regarding our aspirations for the democratisation of access to our archives in general."
[A] The research has also informed the subsequent approach and activities of the BBC in their attempts to use creatively the archive and further democratise access to its collections.
This includes making more content available as an educational resource and also exploring new ways of engaging and delivering the service.
For example, the development of the Research and Education Space (RES) project (January &#8212; December 2013), a partnership programme between the BBC, Jisc and the British Universities Film and Video Council aimed at opening wider archives for UK-based teaching and learning, has been attributed to Popple's initial research.
The Controller of Archive Development for the BBC, referencing RES, stated that, "We could never have achieved this level of ambition without the pioneering work of The Miner's Project...we are all most grateful for your bold and innovative approach" [A].
Furthermore, the research has also helped the BBC address concerns over the need to affirm relationships with its audiences and enhance public engagement.
In a speech in the Prix Italia Conference in 2011, the BBC Controller of Archive Development used Popple's research as a central case study and noted that the Miners' Strike participants' contributions were "illuminating, especially in terms of how they had felt manipulated by some sections of the media.
There was much discussion in our focus groups on the whole question of trust and it was agreed that by making archive materials freely available, and acknowledging the issues attached to them, the BBC had an opportunity to regain the confidence it had lost in some quarters.
"(Ageh 2011:13) [B].
In his supporting testimonial, the Controller added, "I am convinced that the findings of your work is helping us in relation to building public confidence in the organisation by allowing us to engage in a mutually beneficial, two-way dialogue with individuals and communities that will, over time, allow the people of the UK to feel they have a genuine and trusted relationship with the BBC."
[A] Impact on BBC coverage of the anniversary of strike Popple's research also informed and influenced the BBC's coverage of the 25th anniversary year of the strike in 2009.
Through listing the BBC holdings relating to the strike, the report for the BBC notes that the research provided "a definitive list of what content actually exists and can be re-used" [2].
The findings, which were always planned to coincide with this significant anniversary, also helped shape the BBC coverage by highlighting a variety of different accounts, which as a result, incorporated a range of perspectives that would otherwise not have been possible.
This served to preserve and present cultural heritage in a new light, highlighting previously marginalised viewpoints and more generally, influenced the wider understanding of this time in social history.
This was noted by the BBC Controller of Archive Development in 2011: "The feedback we've been getting throughout this project has resulted in all of us having a more rounded and nuanced understanding of the miners' strike than we had previously.
The information and knowledge that was contained in our footage was very important &#8212; but it has been enriched and given extra context by our engagement with the people directly involved in the strike at the time.
Until we engaged with them, it was just a few cans of film on a shelf in a storeroom.
Now, it's a living resource."
(Ageh 2011:17-18) [B].
BBC Yorkshire also gives testimony to the significance of Popple's research in its coverage.
BBC South Yorkshire's web resources used stories drawn from the project's participants [C], in addition to using the Strike Stories films [4], and the Head of BBC Yorkshire stated: "Your case study using BBC archives allowed people to tell their stories and to engage with the material which has not been seen for many years.
The stories have already been used on television, radio and online and will serve as a reference for future generations.
I am convinced we would not have heard the stories without your involvement."
[D] Impact on civic society and public engagement Popple's research also had additional benefit for the participants of the projects.
The Fusion project bought several people together to articulate their feelings of being misrepresented and allowed them to address their own relationships, encouraging reconciliation with people and groups with very different perspectives on the strike.
It increased the participants confidence to contribute to public debate and develop their own interests, for example, one participant now leads the national campaign for a public enquiry into events at the Battle of Orgreave in June 1984 and attributes Popple's research to her ability to develop this campaign and engage with the media [E].
Another participant, a striking miner, has also gone on to record his experiences during the strike for a book, Digging the Seam, which reflects on the legacy of the dispute and explores cultural representations of the strike and how music, photography and cinema responded and contributed to the strike [F].
The research also clearly demonstrated the potential for collaborative design and the genuine public commitment and desire to engage with, and take ownership of, cultural heritage resources.
TheStrategic Partnerships Executive for BBC Research &amp; Development stated: "Your project has impacted on the work and approach of BBC Archives in relation to thinking about collaborative engagement with BBC audiences and the recognition of the important role they play" [G].
Finally, the BBC representative noted in the internal report following the Fusion project that, "The choice of the miners' strike 1984/5 for this research was an inspired one and came from the University of Leeds... few other events had such an impact on social and political lives.
[....] Through this research we can begin to understand what is important to communities about how they are represented in the archives.
We can also start to understand the passions and sense of ownership the BBC audience has when engaging with what is essentially their archive."
[H]
