     Economic and commercial impact - creation of a new business     NIRI Ltd was set up as a University of Leeds spin-out company in 2005 to       directly exploit the research by Russell and develop nonwoven materials       that were found to have major applications in industrial, healthcare and       consumer markets.
NIRI's external impact is reflected by the rapid growth       in its global client base and following initial business angel investment       of &#163;80K annual sales revenue has increased to ~ &#163;1 million (2013) [A]       with an operating profit of around 10% of turnover.
The company has grown       its workforce to 20 staff (mainly textile graduates).
NIRI's economic       impact has been achieved via three modes of operation: commercial product       development for SMEs and international PLCs; licensing of NIRI's       proprietary technology developed from Russell's research; and co-funding       product development joint ventures.
From the outset, Russell has been       retained by NIRI Ltd as Technical Director and is seconded 50% FTE by the       University to drive the Company's innovation portfolio.
NIRI's work is conducted under strict confidentiality and the       international client base (&gt;100) that directly benefits from the       company's products and services include the defence industry, major       healthcare, food and beverage, hygiene and industrial manufacturing       companies [B].
Examples of improved commercial products developed       by NIRI working with industry clients include a more efficacious blood       filter, low adherent wound dressings and tea bags with enhanced       permeability.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality a full list of       companies is not included, but involves large organisations (public       limited companies) as well as small-medium size enterprises operating       nationally and internationally.
Further evidence of impact - new and improved commercialised products         for the industrial, healthcare and consumer sectors     In addition to establishing NIRI Ltd as a successful business, with       Russell's research informing product development, proprietary technology       and process improvements, NIRI has co-funded joint ventures with other       companies to initiate new commercial technologies, all of which have been       developed from Russell's underpinning research.
These commercial       developments can be used as further evidence of impact, through       identifying the new and improved nonwoven and textile products in the       market and their contribution to improved global health and security.
Below, new products are directly linked to Russell's underpinning       research (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), as referenced in Section 2.
(i) The trialled method of injecting high performance materials within       the fabric cross-section to functionalise the structure is evidence of       research adding value and functionality to a fabric at the point of       manufacture.
Hydrospace&#8482; technology has led to the development of a unique       nonwoven material that has multiple commercial uses enabling the storage,       release or controlled delivery of the contents of the cavities [C],[D].
It is being commercialised in blood filtration [E] and in       absorbent hygiene products as part of license and development agreements       that have been established with market leading European product       manufacturers.
(ii) SurfaceSkins technology was commercialised in partnership with       industrial design consultants, Zelo Creative Ltd. Underpinned by Russell's       research on nonwoven composites capable of retaining and internally       distributing large volumes of fluid such as antibacterial formulations, a       range of innovative hygiene devices have been developed to reduce the       transmission of Healthcare Associated Infections (HAIs) in critical areas       such as hospitals.
The products are compression-activated hygiene devices       that clip-fit directly to existing door handles and push plates,       delivering either antibacterial or viricidal liquids immediately on       contact.
According to the Health Protection Agency (HPA) over four million       people in the EU acquire a healthcare-associated infection (HAI) every       year, of whom approximately 37 000 die as a direct result of the       infection.
About 20-30% of these cases are preventable by better infection       and control procedures [F].
Trials by the NHS have successfully       demonstrated the effectiveness of SurfaceSkins in killing pathogens found       in hospitals and a commercial development and license agreement is under       negotiation with a major global healthcare company for launch in 2013/14.
The clinical significance of SurfaceSkins has been highlighted by The       Clinical Director of Microbiology/Pathology at The Leeds Teaching       Hospitals NHS Trust [G].
(iii)Rollastop Secure was developed and commercialised in partnership       with Rollatherm International Group based upon the hydroentangled       metal-polymer fibrous composite technology developed by Russell.
Rollastop       Secure provided the first lightweight cut-resistant security roller blind,       offering a similar performance to heavy metal shutter protection systems.
A supple material that offers greater flexibility, the protective fabric       also provided a printable surface leading to wider marketing capabilities,       benefitting retailers in particular.
Also aimed at protecting domestic       properties, the product "is undergoing commercial trials in three major       supermarkets and other retailers" [H] [text removed for       publication].
(iv) Developed with a medical entomologist from Xeroshield Ltd at the       Roslin Biocentre, the revolutionary mosquito net is effective against       resistant mosquitoes offering a longer-term solution to preventing       transmission of malaria.
With about 219 million cases of malaria and       660,000 deaths annually (2010), the reach and significance was summarised       by the Director of the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation's Infectious       Diseases program before the product was developed: "Entrenched global       health problems, such as malaria, require innovative solutions...if       successful, this research could produce an important new tool to fight       malaria in the world's poorest countries" [I].
Professor Russell's       expertise on insecticidal net properties has been acknowledged by his       appointment as a World Health Organisation (WHO) advisor [J].
