     The research has shaped policy debate and outcomes relating to the       Southern Thai conflict from       2008 to the present.
i) Policy-makers     Since the publication of key research in 2008, previously `unthinkable'       ideas of autonomy for       Thailand's southern border provinces have become increasingly       mainstreamed.
McCargo's 2009       and 2012 testimonies to Thai parliamentary sub-committees on the Southern       conflict played an       important role.
As former Army Commander-in-Chief (2005-07) who led the       military coup of 2006,       and became Deputy Prime Minister in 2007, writes:     "I have instructed the secretary of my sub-committee to summarise       Professor McCargo's       analysis for the main Armed Forces Committee, and plan to have them       submitted for wider       consideration by the Parliament and indeed by the Prime Minister...       McCargo's research       has provided important insights into the southern conflict which are being       taken on board at       the highest levels of the Royal Thai Government."
[A]     McCargo's main local collaborator, PSU's Dr Srisompob Jitpiromsri, leads       Thailand-based       advocacy initiatives, building upon their joint research to develop       alternative governance models       for the region.
Since February 2013, Dr Jitpiromsri has served as a Thai       government negotiator,       talking regularly to the insurgents in a Malaysian-government-brokered       dialogue process seeking a       political settlement.
The Asia Director of the International Crisis Group - the NGO which has       produced the most       influential policy reports on the Southern violence - writes:     `With the recent start of the Malaysian-brokered talks between Thai       authorities and       insurgents, we are now seeing become public and official government policy       the kind of       understanding of the conflict and for a peace process that Professor       McCargo has long       argued for.
It is not coincidental that his long-time collaborator Dr.       Srisompob Jitpiromsri is       one of the nine-member Thai negotiating team for the talks.
Dr. Srisompob       and Professor       McCargo have co-authored at least two articles... on the conflict and       share almost identical       views on it.
Both scholars are have been the forefront of the intellectual       advocacy urging       the Thai government to set aside its security approach and find a       political solution to this       enduring and deadly conflict...' [B].
The research has also been used by a range of state actors including the       Royal Thai Police, whose       national chief writes: `I have asked Professor McCargo to serve as an       informal advisor to the Royal       Thai Police with respect to our handling of issues in the deep South' [C].
Similarly, the UN Chief in       Thailand, writes: `McCargo's research has fed into our understanding of       the Southern Thai conflict       and the way in which we have framed our responses and policies       accordingly... his conclusions       have helped us in shaping our collaborations with the Royal Thai       Government' [D].
ii) NGOs     The research has also inspired further policy-based work on the South,       including initiatives to       support local journalists and civil society groups by Japan's influential       Sasakawa Peace       Foundation (SPF), which has used McCargo's research as a `handbook' for       determining its       interpretation of the conflict and moves to develop political solutions       [E].
The Foundation Director       writes, `It is no exaggeration to say that SPF's various projects in the       Deep South region have been       guided by Professor McCargo's work in many respects'[H].
The Foundation's       application of the       research to support projects such as journalism training illustrates the       reach of impact well beyond       Thailand itself.
iii) Framing the public debate     Coverage of the research has helped formulate an emerging international       consensus that the       conflict in southern Thailand is a political problem, for which autonomy       or some comparable       decentralisation of power is the obvious solution.
An ESRC evaluation       report concluded that the       research had "been carried directly to the heart of the global community       studying, working on and       fighting insurgencies."
[F].
The research has also served to discredit       alternative arguments that the       conflict arises primarily from local mafia feuds, the drug trade and       smuggling.
This has increased       pressure on the Thai authorities to modify policies in the south and       engage with peace dialogues       and other initiatives.
Media coverage of research-based       arguments&#8212;including an op-ed in the       Guardian Weekly and a Thai Public Broadcasting Service TV       interview&#8212;has boosted their impact.
The high profile and international reach of the research has made its       interpretations more difficult       to sideline and has helped open up greater debate within Thailand.
According to a second ESRC       evaluation: `The researcher has also had an impact on public discussion of       the violence in Thai       South in the international media, which in turn has an influence on       policy-making [G].'
