     The original version of the Toolkit had been widely disseminated within       the UK HE sector during the previous RAE period but, since 2008, the reach       and significance of its impact has increased, both beyond this sector, and       internationally.
The key benefits reported within organisations have been       improved understanding, management and intervention to address       institutional racism and institutional responses to ethnic diversity.
It       thus contributed towards the pattern of improved experiences and       opportunities of black and minority ethnic students (e.g.
as indicated in       HEFCE's equality analyses of National Student Survey data).
The initial       mechanism for this influence, up to 2010, was the utility of the Toolkit       in assisting many HEIs to develop their first racial equality schemes in       response to changing legislative requirements.
Beyond its early utilisation, the original Toolkit has since become more       deeply embedded in frontline professional practice and continues to be       cited by many HEIs as a key resource for staff in responding to       institutional racism and diversity today.
Key users include professionals       in the Higher Education Equal Opportunities Network (HEEON), and evidence       of impact on practitioners is documented in communications from an       increasing number of HEIs who have been using the material for strategy       and staff development purposes in the wider process of institutional       change.
These include, for illustration, a wide range of adaptations in       local staff training guides, good practice guides and resource packs [A].
Beyond this frontline utilisation in professional practice, national       utilisation in the HE sector includes, for example, the 2009 Equality       Challenge Unit's review of the national experiences of black and minority       ethnic staff in higher education [B].
Widening the scope of impact beyond this initial focus on higher       education, there have been requests to use or adapt the anti-racist       Toolkit in other sectors too, notably from practitioners in the public and       voluntary sectors engaged in developing similar toolkits.
For example, in       2008, the London Councils developed the framework concept in their       publication of Challenging Institutional Racism &#8212; A toolkit for the         voluntary sector [C].
Thus, the examples so far illustrate       the accumulating reach of impact arising from the first phase of research       as it affected the development of organisational strategies and       professional practice interventions in the UK, since 2008.
At the same time, the significance of the underpinning research approach       was recognised beyond the UK.
As part of the European Year of       Intercultural Education, the Council of Europe invited presentation of the       research messages at its 2008 Strasbourg conference.
This led, in turn, to       the development of a Council of Europe publication [4]       highlighting the causes of intercultural conflict and how new strategies       to address these could be implemented.
The research findings thus       stimulate new debate in the field and, through engagement with key policy       actors, the development of the Council of Europe's policy and practice       approaches to intercultural dialogue on campus.
In corroborating this       impact the Council of Europe's Head of Education confirmed `the value of       this toolkit in the development of antiracist strategies in this sector       across Europe' [D].
Knowledge transfer at the European level led to a second phase of       international collaborative research, through an EU FP7 project, approved       for funding in 2010 [G2].
Within this project, the original       framework shaped development of a new toolkit for the analysis of racism,       related discrimination and institutional responses, proposed for use by       the European Commission.
Like the original Toolkit, this is designed to       provide target actors with clear key messages and recommendations       regarding (anti-)racism and integration.
The multi-national project team       adopted the toolkit approach in 2011, which informed national policy       interventions.
In 2012, 17 participatory workshops were carried out with       166 participants (including policy and decisions makers, and activists) in       Portugal, Spain, France, Denmark, Germany and the UK.
Engagement with       bodies such as the High Commission for Immigration and Intercultural       Dialogue (Portugal), Equality and Human Rights Commission (UK), The Danish       Institute for Human Rights, the French High Authority for the Fight       Against Discrimination and for Equality, The Federal Anti-discrimination       Agency (Germany), and the National Office Against Racial Discrimination       (Italy) produced programmes of action in relation to institutional racism       in employment, education and the news media which are now in process of       implementation.
Thus, the toolkit has been `recognised as applicable in       fields outside higher education, including the mainstream news media, and       in re-thinking and development of national governance strategies for       racial and ethnic diversity' [E].
The UK knowledge transfer workshops (in 2012) engaged representatives       from national organisations such as the Muslim Council of Britain, the       Islamic Centre for Human Rights and the Runnymede Trust, who gave highly       positive feedback and are now collaborating in implementation of the       toolkit.
The EU project culminated with a joint conference (Lisbon,       February 2013) involving policy makers and NGOs, including the European       Roma and Travellers Forum, SOS Racismo, Fundaci&#243;n Secretariado Gitano and       Plataforma Gueto.
Further presentations to the European Commission and the       European Parliament are planned for 2014.
Beyond these European developments, the anti-racist Toolkit approach has       been adopted internationally in the HE sector.
For example, `the value of       this toolkit for the development of racial equality strategies in higher       education in the South African context' was confirmed by the Executive       Dean of Nelson Mandela University [F].
Most recently, its       expanding reach was confirmed in feedback from the Associate Vice Provost       of Ohio State University, and the Vice Provost and Chief Diversity Officer       of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, at a World Universities Network       seminar (November 2012).
Its significance has been acknowledged in North       America, with recognition in a recent report on racism in the academy by       the Commission on Race and Racism in Anthropology/American Anthropology       Association (2012) [G], and in its utilisation as a resource by       the National Anti-Racism Council of Canada (2013) [H].
