     The EuRADE project enabled the European Disability Forum (EDF) to adopt a       new policy position on disability research, to secure new commitments from       industry actors and an investment of &#8364;2.5m for social model research in       the FP7 Social Sciences and Humanities work programme.
The ANED project enabled the European Commission to make policy       recommendations to the Council of Ministers for the reform of disability       policies in EU Member States, to adopt new policy monitoring tools, to       propose new legislation, and to fulfil the EU's obligations to the United       Nations on disability and human rights.
i) EuRADE &amp;mdash; http://www.eurade.eu     EDF (representing European DPOs) launched its involvement in the project       at its General Assembly (Slovenia, 2008).
The research findings were       validated by the EDF Board, published on their website, and promoted to       policy stakeholders at two briefings given by the EuRADE team and       participating DPOs.
The first was hosted by the European Parliament       (Brussels, 2009) with contributions from MEPs and European Commission       representatives (responsible for FP7 Social Science, FP7 Science in       Society themes and Eurostat).
Based on the research findings, EDF published a new policy statement,       presenting recommendations to the European Commission for alignment of EU       research and development funding with a social model and human rights       based approach, and greater support for research participation by DPO's [A].
EDF was invited to present these recommendations at the 2009 European       Health Forum and also arranged lobbying meetings with the EU Commission's       Research Directorate (e.g.
its Horizontal Aspects and Coordination Units).
EDF exploited the research findings to lobby the European Technology       Platforms, which provide a framework for industry stakeholders to define       their research priorities (e.g.
European Road Transport Research Advisory       Council, European Rail Research Advisory Council, European Construction       Technology Platform, the eMobility platform and the Networked and       Electronic Media platform).
In 2009, the International Telecommunication Union and Global Initiative       for Inclusive ICTs (G3ict) identified the EuRADE project as a civil       society example of good practice in their e-Accessibility Policy Toolkit [B].
A notable outcome of the EuRADE project was EU commitment to a disability       topic in the FP7 Social Science and Humanities roadmap for 2011-13       (resulting in a project call in the 2012 work programme, with a budget of       &#8364;2.5m) plus two project calls in the Information and Communications       Technology (ICT) work programme [C].
As corroborated by the EDF Director, `As a consequence of the EuRADE       project EDF adopted a strong policy statement and a guide on user-defined       research priorities to assist the European Commission's Research       Directorate General (EC DG RTD) in shaping disability related work       programmes.
The findings enabled us to lobby key stakeholders within the       EU institutions and Technology Platforms for change in their research       agendas and funding priorities.'
[D].
ii) ANED &#8212;         http://www.disability-europe.net     Collectively, the ANED network has published more than 300 policy-related       reports, leading to diverse stakeholder utilization at national and       European level.
For example: the Federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia       (Germany) and the Accessibility Directorate of Ontario (Canada) in       revising their employment activation policies; the Estonian Statistical       Office and the Flemish Minister for Mobility and Public Works (Belgium) in       developing rights-based indicator methods; the European Parliamentary       Disability Intergroup in requesting advice on disability benefits and       entitlements; the European Parliament's Equality and Diversity Unit on       proposals for transferable recognition of disability status in European       Countries; the office of the Vice-President of the European Parliament on       poverty and social inclusion; the European Network on Independent Living,       utilizing country reports in advocacy campaigns; or the World Bank's       Disability and Development Team, reproducing research material in a       web-based toolkit.
In 2009, presentations of ANED findings on employment and social       inclusion were invited to the official European Day of Persons with       Disabilities and as oral evidence to the European Economic and Social       Committee, referenced in the Committee's written Opinion [E].
These findings were used in European Commission staff input to the       European Council's Joint Employment Report for 2009/2010 [F] and       referenced in EU Vice-President Vivian Reding's address to the ministerial       conference of the Hungarian EU Presidency on European Disability Strategy       (2011).
The Commission again drew on ANED findings in 2012 to make       country-specific recommendations for changes to employment and welfare       policies for disabled people in Denmark, Estonia and the Netherlands and,       in 2013, to make the legislative and business case for a new European       Accessibility Act.
Impact on EU policy monitoring and co-ordination is also evident.
In       2010, the European Commission requested ANED's advice to inform       preparation of its Disability Strategy 2010-2020.
The Strategy then made a       commitment to improve EU-level monitoring on disability rights, including       the development of a new online tool to map and monitor progress on       disability policies across the 34 EU Member States, Candidate and       Associate countries [G].
This tool, designed by Priestley       and piloted within ANED, was launched in 2012 as the `Disability Online       Tool of the Commission' (DOTCOM) [H].
In combination with       statistical indicator development, DOTCOM provides public access to data       on more than 1,500 national policies and programmes relevant to the       implementation of the European Disability Strategy and provides a new       model of concurrent multinational rights monitoring [5].
In 2010, the EU ratified, for the first time, an international human       rights Treaty &#8212; the United Nations Convention on the Rights of       Persons with Disabilities.
The European Agency for Fundamental Rights       (FRA) was tasked with independently monitoring the EU's progress on       implementation and the Commission invited FRA to develop its monitoring       activity with reference to the framework of indicators developed by ANED [I].
In parallel, an expert team was engaged to provide the Commission with       evidence and advice to help draft the EU's first official Treaty report to       the UN.
Professors Priestley and Gerard Quinn (Galway) were the       principal advisors and, on the basis of their teams' input, the EU's       initial report was prepared for the EU Council of Ministers and submission       to the UN in 2013.
As corroborated by the Head of the EU Commission's Disability Unit, `The       Centre for Disability Studies at the University of Leeds has provided the       academic leadership for ANED and I am happy to confirm that the research       outputs of Mark Priestley and Anna Lawson have resulted in the       impact on our policies described.
...In particular, ANED work on data       collection and dissemination as well as the development of relevant       indicators has strengthened our approach to disability rights monitoring,       e.g.
through the Disability Online Tool of the Commission launched in June       2012.'
[J].
