     AVX Ulster has had on-going links with AVX Ltd for over 25 years       with the company funding research, providing PhD studentships and offering       industrial support for numerous collaborative R&amp;D projects.
Most       recently (2009), NIBEC and AVX commenced a large scale project to improve       the quality of the dielectric layers in the Multi-Layer Ceramic Capacitors       (MLCC) that the company produce in millions of units per day.
This project       was highly successful with major improvements in nanoparticle dispersion       which the company have now fully integrated by into their volume       production lines (including Czech Republic).
This has had a major impact       upon product development and business results [4].
[text removed for       publication].
Building on the success of this collaboration, in 2012 AVX       co-funded a second project in collaboration with NIBEC specifically       focusing on improvement of the base metal electrode (BME) system utilising       nanoparticle nickel for MLCCs.
This project has already identified       improvements in BME ink formulation and processing.
[text removed for       publication].
This has arisen due to the direction and outputs achieved       from the materials characterisation and the understanding associated with       electrical characterisation of both raw materials and devices.
Improved       control of de-agglomeration and dispersion of barium titanate powders and       metal oxide dopants along with feedback from nanoscale measurement and       characterisation data (impedance analysis, dispersion and binder-particle       interaction) have allowed the company to greatly enhance their       manufacturing processes [1, 4].
A third and much larger project (&#163;4m) has       recently been submitted to Invest NI (July 2013) focusing on defect       control within the dielectrics layers.
Furthermore, the knowledge gained       through our recent collaborative activities has allowed AVX (NI) to gain       substantial credibility with USA customers such as NASA, BMW, Ford and the       European Space Agency.
New device characterisation and fabrication       capabilities introduced by NIBEC include, Electrical Impedance       Spectroscopy, FIB preparation of lamellae and HRTEM analysis, XPS and       ToF-SIMs, particle size analysis (BET, electroacoustic and dynamic light       scattering), new wetting and dispersion technology and a rare earth dopant       programme.
All of these interactions have impacted on international sales,       growth, global market penetration and job sustainability.
Joint       publications, publicity and sponsored PhD programmes have resulted,       leading to a strong and fruitful relationship.
SiSaf Ltd.: SiSaf is a spin-in to NIBEC and is developing drug       delivery formulations that use a patented bioactive and non-toxic form of       silicon nanoparticles (&#8804; 50nm) that are designed to allow compounds to       penetrate into the deeper layers of the skin without adverse effects [2].
Using the extensive knowledgebase acquired over the last 15 years in the       area of nanomaterials, NIBEC is assisting the company to develop improved       fabrication and characterisation techniques.
NIBEC have a senior staff       representative on the board as CSO (JMcL).
SiSafs core fabrication and       characterisation laboratories are based at NIBEC and with the investment       of two joint &#163;250k INI R&amp;D grants, various consultancies and       collaborative work, NIBEC and SiSaf have jointly developed a wide range of       capabilities in silicon nanoparticle production.
This work has led to an       expansion of SiSaf to seven staff, increased laboratory space and       enhancement of their patent, IP and knowledge assets.
High quality silicon       nanoparticles (50-100nm) are routinely batch-produced, functionalised,       doped with drugs and characterised for trials and marketing samples to       customers.
This interaction has already led to a better understanding of the       fundamental properties of Si nanoparticles, its dependence of the       formulation route and a more efficient processing protocol.
The research       has directly impacted on the valuation of the company with NIBEC staff       producing key reports and know-how in a number of important areas, namely:       the nature, size and surface characteristics of the 50 nm silicon       nanoparticles; three technical reports on the scale-up viability for       nanoparticle production via (i) arc deposition, (ii) via - milling and       (iii) via Pulsed Laser Deposition (PLD) for production of smaller       particles.
Biocompatibility (and in particular nano-toxicity) has been       investigated by NIBEC and a technical report issued which has impacted       beneficially on investor confidence through our findings of non-toxicity       which would have been a major barrier to full commercialisation.
The       company now has a valuation of &#163;3.5m and is completing a set of &#163;1.5m       human trials in the USA to determine the suitability of the product for       topical application.
It has a Silicon Valley office at ITLG with John       Hartnett as lead investor along with IUL, Crescent Capital and a set of       private angels [7,8].
The impact of having NIBEC team on board is       significant and the following points were key to improving the company's       overall value: nanoparticle fabrication (via plasma, CVD, wet etching and       milling); nanoparticle characterisation via HRTEM, dynamic light       scattering and zeta potential dispersion analysis, pharmaokinetics and       nanotoxicity testing with human cell lines [2].
In summary the company is       in a strong position, with over &#163;2m of investment to date and with Human       Clinical trials near completion, Suzanne Siebert (CEO) has said         "NIBEC's impact on the company has been critical, and as we develop even         stronger international relationships in India, USA and throughout         Europe, these engineers, who underpin our work are highly important         partners".
SEAGATE: In 1994 the then core nanotechnology team at NIBEC, in       conjunction with colleagues in QUB and local government agencies, were       instrumental in attracting Seagate Technologies to locate a major       production facility in the UK (in competition with South America, eastern       Europe and Asia).
The subsequent NIBEC relationships with Seagate R&amp;D       in both the UK and the USA were developed around nanoscale coatings of       diamond-like carbon on a new generation of GMR read-write head devices.
The NIBEC team utilised a novel plasma immersion technique called Filtered       Cathodic Vacuum Arc (FCVA) that was developed in conjunction with Veeco       Instruments (USA).
This, along with our development of specific metrology       protocols for analysing AlTiC ceramics, led to ultra-hard layers (30 GPa)       with a credible measured thickness of 1.5nm, the world's thinnest       continuous carbon coatings [3].
[text removed for publication].
The       ultimate result was a read-write head with a significantly increased iron       content and a reduction in head-disc flying-height (due to the protective       nature of the dense carbon layer).
[text removed for publication].
Seagate, in conjunction with InvestNI, invested over &#163;5m in three key       projects associated with the augmentation of this initial work, from 1996       to 2009.
NIBEC and Seagate are currently planning a new programme of       engagement in the area of Heat Assisted Magnetic Recording with a focus on       our proven nanomaterials capability [3].
