     Based on Pawson's foundational research, `realist evaluation'       provided a new lens through which to examine social programmes.
Not only       does it provide a novel means of testing interventions but, significantly,       it does so in a manner that improves targeting and refinement of social       policy and practice.
Armed with a greater awareness of how measures       produce varying impacts in different circumstances, policy makers and       practitioners benefit from a better understanding of what policies to       implement in particular conditions.
Pawson's insights have subsequently been adopted widely by major       national and international organisations charged with policy development       and service delivery improvements.
Whilst the broad footprint       `methodological influence' is challenging to depict, the following key       users and beneficiaries can be used as examples to evidence the impact of       Pawson's work on research agendas, commissioning priorities and       policy guidance.
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE)     NICE sets the standards for healthcare by developing evidence-based       clinical guidance and advice for NHS, local authorities, charities, and       those with a responsibility for commissioning or providing healthcare,       public health or social care services.
Pawson's research on       `realistic evaluation' is a key part of NICE's methods deployed in       developing public health guidance, as noted by its Director of the Centre       of Public Health Excellence:     `Firstly, "realistic evaluation" has, and will continue to, revolutionise       the field of evaluation on social and health programmes.
Second, this idea       has profoundly changed, at least potentially, the way that social       scientists think about causation.
Third, the work has challenged the       prevailing damaging and powerful orthodoxies, held widely in government,       about the way interventions in human affairs work' [A] (Director       of the Centre of Public Health, NICE)     NICE has also made extensive usage of Pawson's research       throughout its committee structure, with Pawson serving as a       member of its R&amp;D Advisory Committee (2005-10) as well as serving on       the Programme Development Group (PDG), which developed guidance on       Behavioural Change Interventions (2008-9).
Pawson has been called       as an expert witness for the PGD on Unintentional Injuries (2009) and for       the revisions of the Behavioural Change Guidelines (2013), as well as       providing training and workshops to the Public Health Group (2009/10).
The       NICE Citizen's Council imparts a public perspective on their operations       and Pawson was recently invited to consult with them on the role       of evidence (2013).
As a result of this sustained involvement and       professional exchange, realist approaches has found application in much of       NICE's guidance.
[B]     A recent project, funded by [G4], provides further evidence of       the research's impact through professional exchange.
This 2009-2011 ESRC       project was supported by NICE who seconded a senior analyst to the       project.
She co-authored many of the research outputs and now plays an       anchor role in developing project ideas into official NICE Guidelines       Development Manuals.
NHS NIHR HS&amp;DR     The NHS NIHR is the UK's largest funder of research into health service       delivery, organisation and management.
Methods of evaluation and synthesis       are at the core of its commissions and the impact of the realist strategy       is evidenced in the current projects portfolio, which include a growing       number of realist inquiries [C].
Reciprocal support has been       provided by HS&amp;DR, through [G6], a project producing       methodological advice, publication standards and training resources for       future users seeking to apply the realist and/or meta-narrative approach       to systematic review.
The corroboration statement [D] from the       Associate Director and Chair of the NHS HS&amp;DR Board notes that `the       impact of [Pawson's] work can be seen in the research proposals that come       before our commissioning board and in the debate at board meetings ...       which tend to make more explicit and intelligent use of theory-driven       approaches than would have been the case a few years ago'.
Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek &#8212; en Documentatiecentrum (WODC),         Netherlands.
As an example of the international reach of `realist evaluation' methods,       WODC produces recommendations on matters related to all aspects of       criminal justice policy in the Netherlands, and is also responsible for       research and evaluation regarding legislation and regulations in general       for national security and migration.
The Director of WODC notes that its       advice `carries the Pawson "fingerprints"' and that Pawson's       work forms `citation "classics" that are used often when my organization       designs evaluations to be commissioned to outside research organizations       or are carried out in-house by researchers.'
[E].
As a former President of the European Evaluation Society, which aims to       stimulate and promote theory, practice and utilisation of high quality       evaluation, the Director of WODC also notes that Pawson's work has       had a `profound effect on research utilization and policy formation across       Europe', bringing a level of `sophistication to the understanding of how       interventions work.'
[E].
Institute of Health Improvement (IHI), Harvard.
The IHI is a leading innovator in health care improvement worldwide.
It       offers a wide range of resources and teaching tools to help health care       professionals enhance service and clinical outcomes and realist strategies       are now a key part of that portfolio.
Pawson (April 2008) was       invited to give a lecture of realist applications in healthcare at the IHI       followed by a two-day workshop at Dartmouth University.
Training was       continued in a week-long IHI `summer camp' (Vermont, July 2009) in which       senior practitioners met to discuss the evaluation of their own       interventions (infection control, early response teams, etc.).
Research       designs were put into place to be implemented over the following years and       this work is evidenced in a number of publications (notably JAMA, impact       factor 30) that have already emerged from the early consultations.
[F,G,H]
