     The research led care commissioners and policymakers to re-focus       priorities in supporting carers.
This is evidenced by subsequent policy       direction, which relied on the research for evidence, and parliamentary       debate, which used the research to recommend and influence service and       policy re-design.
As well as being used by Carers UK to form vital       evidence for their own lobbying, the findings directly influenced and       engaged several government departments, such as the Department of Health       (DH) and Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), and local authorities       across the UK.
It also helped shape developments in the European       Commission and Parliament.
Impact on national charity, Carers UK     Carers UK, a leading national charity campaigning to improve carer's       rights, has made consistent use of the research, which has offered an       evidence base to stimulate debate and provided a substantial framework to       shape strategies about providing better support for carers in the future.
Evidence of its impact on Carers UK includes the use of research findings       directly in its policy work, advice to and lobbying of parliamentarians in       both Houses of Parliament, and in its annual publications and events       linked to Carers' Rights Day (December) and Carers Week (June).
Carers       UK's Head of Innovation directly credits Yeandle and CIRCLE as       enabling the charity to then `carry a credible case supporting carers in       employment or returning to employment, not only in the UK but across       Europe and beyond internationally.'
[A].
Impact on Government policy     CES shaped the Government's National Carers Strategy (NCS) in       2008, influencing its emphasis on carers and employment, and subsequently,       carers of working age were targeted in many service improvements.
This       impact is evidenced through Yeandle's appointment to the       Government's Task Force (TF) on Employment, as part of its       preparation for the NCS, with the aim of giving the TF access to the       detailed study findings.
The research [1,2] is extensively cited in the Employment       TF report [B].
For example, it highlights the CES finding       that 55% of 751 carers not in work wished to re-enter employment.
The       research provided an evidential base and rationale for the TF's       recommendations for additional DWP support for carers, which were       subsequently implemented.
CES evidence also supported the       recommendations of the separate NCS TF reports on Income and on Equalities       [B].
The DH later commissioned further work from Yeandle       and Buckner for its Policy Impact Assessment of the 2008 NCS,       helping to secure cross-departmental support for the strategy.
The Government's commitments in the NCS 2008 also included other       measures, including new DWP financial support for carers returning to work       and new Jobcentre Plus `Care Partnership Mangers', and as a result of the       research establishing Yeandle and CIRCLE as experts in this field,       the DWP commissioned the team in 2009 to deliver policy workshops to guide       implementation of these measures.
The DH also commissioned research from Yeandle       to guide regional planning for carer support and inform health and social       care policy implementation.
In 2010, the research again proved vital; this time for the Coalition       Government, which used the research in its policy on supporting people to       combine work and care, citing the importance of CIRCLE's research and       evaluations for DH policy in `The evidence base for supporting carers         in work' [C].
Specifically, Yeandle's research was       used to identify the impact of working carers on employers, and how       supportive employers can play a key role in mitigating these issues.
Yeandle et al.
's evaluation of two DH programmes [3,4]       also produced evidence used in 2011 by the Department of Health, as       corroborated by the then Minister for Care Services, who stated: `This       report on the work undertaken in the Department's Demonstrator Sites       programme provides information which should inform and guide       decision-making at every level.
The findings...will be carefully studied       to ensure the learning from this important work feeds into the       Department's autumn 2011 engagement exercise on the Future of Care and       Support and informs the White Paper on Care and Support.'
[D].
A Carers in Employment Task and Finish Group was established in       2012 by the Minister for Care Services to develop further evidence on the       social and economic case for supporting carers.
Co-chaired by the DH and       the industry group Employers for Carers, the Task and Finish         Group specifically recruited Yeandle so that she could       supply research intelligence from her team's work to inform its report on       workforce measures and opportunities for job creation in care services,       which set out the roles of government, employers and relevant       non-governmental agencies in helping carers combine work and care [E].
Impact on Parliamentary and policy debate     As an example of the research informing policy debate, following the       publication of the NCS, the House of Commons Work and Pensions         Committee identified weaknesses in the current system of benefits       for carers and the support the DWP provides in enabling carers to combine       work and care.
The Committee appointed Yeandle as a Special       Adviser, specifically seeking her guidance on using the CES       research findings, which were relied upon in the private meetings of the       Committee as part of the inquiry into the effectiveness of the DWP's       existing approaches to carers.
The research was also used in the       preparation of its questions to those giving evidence in the public       sessions of the Inquiry and cited extensively in the 2008 Inquiry Report       and statistical appendix [F], including a direct acknowledgement       of the contribution of Yeandle and CIRCLE to the work.
In December       2008, the Government responded to this Inquiry Report, outlining the next       steps for carers' benefit reform, addressing some of the key       recommendations raised in the Report, which used CIRCLE's analysis of the       census to provide an evidence base [G].
In terms of contributing to and informing wider, cross-party       parliamentary debate, the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Carers       (APPGC) also took evidence from the research in 2008.
The APPGC used this       in parliamentary debates and in drafting Private Member's Bills [Carers         (Identification &amp; Support) Bill 2010 and Social Care (Local         Sufficiency) &amp; Identification of Carers Bill 2012].
In 2012, the       Houses Joint Committee on the Draft Care and Support Bill also referenced       CIRCLE's research [4] in the official Written Evidence,       identifying the effective techniques that the Carers' Strategy       Demonstrator sites used in seeking to explore different ways of       identifying and engaging with carers [H].
This Written Evidence       was reported to both Houses in March 2013.
As an example of how research informed wider European policy debate, the       European Parliament hosted an event with the MEP Interest Group on         Carers, established following lobbying based on CES findings       by Carers UK and the supranational carers' organisation Eurocarers.
By 2013, the MEP group on carers comprised 30 MEPs in 10 member states       meeting to debate and initiate EU-level policy actions and it continues to       work closely with Carers UK and Eurocarers.
The former       President of Eurocarers corroborates the role CIRCLE has played,       stating that the research `has been important in informing our work to       shape the policy agenda, particularly in a European perspective.
The       research informed the 2012 report of a 10-country research project on       Company Initiatives for Workers with Care Responsibilities.
At EU level       the research from CIRCLE strongly influenced the development of the work       and strategic priorities of Eurocarers, and contributed to debate in the       European Parliament.'
[I].
