     The primary impact of this research is official (government and operator)       guidance and policies on transport forecasting and appraisal, both in the       UK and internationally.
Consequently, through adoption of these processes,       the ITS Leeds research has contributed to the underlying evidence base and       analysis framework for many high profile practical applications since       2008.
The table below is a list of official guidance documents which       contain specific contributions made by ITS Leeds based on the underpinning       research described in Section 2 above.
User/Beneficiary             Reach             Guidance Manual                              The World Bank           Global           Economic Evaluation of Transport Projects Toolkit [A]                             European Commission           EU           Guide to Cost-Benefit Analysis of Investment Projects [B]                             Association of Train Operating Companies           UK           Passenger Demand Forecasting Handbook (PDFH) [C]                             Department for Transport           UK           WebTAG [D]                          WebTAG     WebTAG is the Manual which the appraisal of all UK publicly funded       transport projects is required to follow.
Explicit references to the       research cited here are found in Units 3.3.2 and 3.5.6 of WebTAG, and have       been retained in all updates of these units since 2008 [D].
Unit 3.3.2,       regarding appraisal of noise, refers to work by Nellthorp et al.
[7] as       the basis for calculating official values of traffic noise.
Mackie et       al.
's report [3] led directly to the re-setting of official UK appraisal       values for changes in travel time which are still used today; Unit 3.5.6       on the value of travel time refers directly to [3] stating: "Values         for non-working time are....based on research conducted by ITS for DfT         reported in 2003".
Since compliance with WebTAG is mandatory for       major scheme appraisals, the ITS Leeds work has influenced the appraisal       of all major road and transport schemes submitted for funding approval       to/by DfT since 2008; this impact is corroborated by the DfT [E].
When the       DfT undertook the `New Approach to Appraisal (NATA) Refresh' review in       2009, Mackie chaired the Peer Review panel of academics and practitioners.
PDFH and rail industry regulation     The PDFH [C] contains the officially recommended demand forecasting       procedures of the rail industry in Great Britain.
Research which leads to       changes to its recommended parameters therefore impacts on real world       decision making.
ITS Leeds work on understanding the causes of trends in       rail travel [5] has underpinned the recommended elasticities to GDP in the       2002, 2005, 2009 and 2013 versions of PDFH.
The latest update of PDFH in       2013 also uses generalised journey time (GJT) elasticities from [2].
These       GJT elasticities entail a significant departure from previous values,       impacting upon demand forecasts of changes to not only journey time,       service frequency and through-train provision, but also to other       elasticities derived from the GJT elasticities, such as crowding,       reliability, accessibility to stations and rolling stock.
In addition, a       recent ITS Leeds review informed by [6] has led to major changes in the       parameters used to forecast changes in reliability; these updated       parameters have been implemented within the Office of Rail Regulation's       2013 update to Schedule 8, affecting millions of pounds of compensation       payments concerning train punctuality.
Finally, ITS Leeds created the       DfT's Strategic Fares Model, and updated it in 2010 and 2013; this is used       to inform how rail fares in Britain are regulated and was subsequently a       feature of PDFH [iv].
ATOC's letter of corroboration [F] states that: "ITS         has played a leading role in developing the body of evidence and the         framework contained within the PDFH, which is a key component of the         commercial and regulatory framework of the rail sector".
An Illustrative Example - High Speed 2 (HS2)     The valuation and forecasting strands described above come together in       the economic appraisal of the HS2 rail project.
The demand forecasting and       economic appraisal of this project has been consciously set up to be       compliant with PDFH and WebTAG.
So, for example, the demand growth over       time is influenced by Wardman's work on GDP elasticities [5], the       modelling of reliability benefits and crowding relief on the West Coast       Main Line by Batley et al.
[6], the valuation of non-work travel time       savings by Mackie et al.
[3], and the valuation of noise by Nellthorp et       al.
[7].
These pieces of work undertaken at ITS Leeds all influence the       assessment of value for money of HS2 [G], and research on the value of       travel time is a particular focus of the strategic case for HS2 [H].
World Bank toolkit     The ITS Leeds work for UK government and industry has provided the       foundation for more internationally-focused work which has extended the       reach of the research impacts.
In 2003, ITS was commissioned by the World       Bank to develop a transport appraisal toolkit, which draws heavily on ITS       research outputs.
This toolkit has been available to consultants around       the world from 2003 to date [A].
The responsible officer in the World Bank       states that the toolkit "...has been instrumental in improving the         quality of economic evaluation in the transport sector in the World         Bank.
Over the period 2008-12 there were 261 investment projects         financed by the World Bank either in the transport sector or with a         substantial transport component.
These Guidelines made a substantive         contribution to improving the quality of the economic evaluation of         these projects' [I].
European Cost-Benefit Analysis     In 2008, the European Commission adopted its Guide to Cost-Benefit       Analysis of Investment Projects [B], incorporating the methods and values       developed by the HEATCO project.
The ITS Leeds research has therefore       served as a reference point for value of time calculations in appraisals       of trans-European network projects.
The same values are also recommended       for calculating congestion costs in the `Handbook on estimation of       external costs in the transport sector' [J], co- financed by the European       Commission.
