     Li's in-depth, specialist knowledge of Chinese theatre (modern and       traditional), her unique methodology of combining theatrical and       socio-cultural analysis in her research, and her background in theatre       practice, has allowed her to work with a range of international audiences,       theatre practitioners and arts professionals.
Impact activities can be       divided into two strands: (1) the promotion of cross-cultural awareness to       general audiences through the Cao Yu centenary events; and (2) Li's       collaborations with theatre companies on an international scale, through       which she directly influenced programming and education policies.
Strand 1: Promoting cross-cultural awareness to general audiences         through the Cao Yu centenary project (2011-13)     In the UK, Canada, USA and China, large audiences were drawn to       exhibitions, public lectures, seminars, workshops, film screenings and a       stage production &#8212; The Sun Is Not for Us &#8212; a newly created work       based on four canonical plays by Cao Yu (1910-96), the pioneer of modern       Chinese drama.
Generated from Li's research on the playwright and inspired       by Cao Yu's centenary in 2010, the project involved 17 venues (including       the Edinburgh Fringe Festival and the Shanghai International Contemporary       Theatre Festival) and attracted a combined audience of over approximately       25,000 across the UK, North America and China (A).
Li closely       liaised with the company to develop the original script (regularly       advising on content and staging), and wrote content for the production       booklet and leaflet.
She was solely responsible for curating the       exhibition, delivering workshops and lectures at select venues, and was       instrumental in securing funding to extend the geographic reach of the       tour (part of the Staging China network, the project raised       external funds totalling approx.
&#163;25,000).
Li's approach to planning and       delivering a Cao Yu themed workshop at the National Theatre of Scotland       led the producer to see the value of working with academics in the       development of cross-cultural productions (B).
Western audiences rarely get the opportunity to see Chinese works on this       scale, while Chinese audiences were enlightened by the stage production       because it demonstrated Western young people's understanding and       interpretation of Chinese classics.
The Arts Manager of the British       Council (Shanghai) commented: `The Sun leaves us an inspiring       example of cultural exchange and hopefully a legacy in China' (C).
These activities have attracted large-scale media interest in the UK,       North America and China, including: 5 reviews of the 2012 Edinburgh Fringe       Festival; 3 Chinese language newspapers published in the UK/Europe (with       circulation between 20,000-80,000, covering 12 European countries); 19       paper newspapers and magazines in China including Youth Daily (450,000);       Daily News (500,000), Shanghai Evening Post (750,000), China Financial and       Economic News (300,000) and Liaoning Daily (400,000); 52 online media       reports; 2 online video reports; 6 detailed reports on organizations'       websites including the Ministry of Culture; 3 TV reviews and a special       report programme (in English and Chinese); and over 100 audience members'       comments through Chinese mini blogs, including long reviews (D).
Strand 2: Changing theatre practice and informing cultural policy         nationally and internationally     In 2012-13 Li collaborated with the director, cast members, and publicity       and education departments of the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) for its       first production of a Chinese play, The Orphan of Zhao.
Her       specialist knowledge of Chinese theatre was highly valued by members of       the company and she was consulted on several occasions by the director on       matters of content and staging.
Li led a 1-day method workshop with 20       company actors and contributed text for the production programme.
As part       of the project outreach she also delivered a talk to 100 A-level students       at an international academy in Stratford-upon-Avon.
In the words of the       RSC's Artistic Director, Li's workshop with the acting company was       `revelatory, and had a profound impact on the development of the       production' (E).
Li's expertise and research networks have also helped West Yorkshire       Playhouse (WYP) to extend its programming to include Chinese theatre.
In       2005 she facilitated the joint production of The Dutiful Daughter       with London based Chinese Crackers (an organisation promoting links       between British and Chinese theatres) and the Sichuan People's Art Theatre       (SPAT).
The original script was based on the experience of WYP       practitioners during a visit to Sichuan, where Li accompanied the group       and acted in the capacity of language and cultural interpreter, as well as       research consultant.
Based on the success of this initial collaboration,       in 2010-11 SPAT received a grant from the Sichuan provincial government to       work with WYP a second time.
Daniels (Co-I) has since made a trip to       Sichuan with the newly appointed Artistic Director of WYP, in preparation       for a second cross-cultural production (scheduled to be delivered in       2014).
The Associate Director of Young People's Theatre at WYP has noted       that Li's research `added a rigour to the relationship that had influenced       the company's view of China, which is now spreading beyond professional       areas directly related to productions, outwards to other areas such as       Theatre in Education' (F).
Li was consulted by the organisers of the World Shakespeare Festival held       at the Globe Theatre in London as part of the Cultural Olympiad in 2011-12       (G) resulting in the inclusion of two Chinese theatre company       productions, Titus and Andronicus and Richard III, which       Li was asked to review for the official Festival blog (H).
To       encourage future such collaborations and as part of the Staging China       project, Li convened the international symposium `Performing China' in       March 2013, bringing together theatre researchers and practitioners in an       open, interactive forum.
After attending the event, the Executive Director       of the newly-established cultural exchange company Performance Infinite       wrote: `This symposium made me realize the importance of research.
Without       a profound understanding and knowledge of both Chinese and Western       theatre, you wouldn't have had such an excellent structure and       components... we will do more research in order to run our business more       effectively and more efficiently' (I).
