     Evidence of engagement with the `Youth Amplified' resources can be used       to demonstrate how       Coleman's research has informed debate, made available new content       and influenced practice for       education providers.
There is also strong evidence of improvements in young people's       confidence when speaking in       public and their ability to express ideas and opinions in communities,       schools and workplaces, as a       direct result of engaging with the `Youth Amplified' resources.
In terms of informing and influencing education providers, by October       2012 over 200 schools       across England and Wales had registered an interest in incorporating the       `Youth Amplified'       resources into teaching and the "comprehensive guide for educators" on the       website has been       downloaded over 300 times since the website's launch.
Teachers who have adopted the `Youth Amplified' resources have reported       marked improvements       in the confidence and ability of students, where they are now able to       speak in public in ways that       they were not able to do previously.
For example:     By the end of the second session, all students successfully stood in       front of the group       and delivered a speech without notes, something which I think they were       highly unlikely       to feel confident doing at the start ... [A]     Between January and May 2013, over 30 workshops , designed to supplement       the online       resources, were requested by a variety of schools, youth centres,       University student groups and       adult education classes.
The aim of these workshops was to help teachers       and youth workers       support young people to develop and articulate arguments in a confident       and effective fashion.
Feedback from these workshops suggests that exposure to both the online       resources and face-to-face       activity sessions led young people to feel more confident about applying       newly-discovered       principles of confident self-expression:     The student's feedback afterwards was extremely positive, all of them       believed that it       has increased their confidence in performing before a crowd and they felt       prepared to       do it again ... An unexpected outcome from the workshop was the students       wanting to       deliver something similar to younger years in the school.
As we are trying       to develop       not only non-academic skills in our students, including leadership, this       was a break       through.
[B]     Working in collaboration with the Twist Partnership, which works with       disadvantaged school       students to enhance their civic and leadership skills, Coleman ran       two workshops for year 11       pupils from the Langdon School in Newham, East London.
Twist's Education       Director commented       on the impact of these sessions:     During the workshops, the students seemed to grow in confidence       immensely.
Students who       had been quiet and reserved for most the year suddenly found that they       were able to speak       out in front of a large group.
The most striking of these was Robin who is       normally extremely       shy and silent but managed a dramatic reading to a large audience.
She       said that she never       thought that she would be able to do anything like that.
I was surprised       at how many shy and       reserved students seemed to find a "voice".
A year 11 boy, who had been       silent for most of the       trip, flourished and completely stole the show.
[C]     After working with the Youth Ampified resources, she was of the opinion       that     The change in the students was quite miraculous.
I would love to       incorporate the project into some       of the leadership programmes that Twist runs for young people.
I feel that       it could have a dramatic       effect and most particularly on those young people who are at risk of       exclusion.
Although designed to be used by 11 - 18 year olds, the creation of new       educational materials from       Coleman's research has also engaged wider audiences, as evidenced       by the adoption of the       `Youth Amplified' resources by the Workers' Educational Association (WEA),       the UK's largest       voluntary-sector provider of adult education, as part of its Community       Action Learning Programme.
Workshops, based on the expressive capacities identified by Coleman,       have been run for over 200       WEA students to date.
Coleman is currently collaborating with the       organisation's director of       education to further adapt some of the content for additional use by adult       learners, to inform       personal and professional development.
As the WEA moves forward into a new phase of its work, responding to the       difficult       social and economic pressures around us, we shall be focusing much more on       the       skills and values of citizenship and will be making use of Coleman's       research &#8212; and       working with him &#8212; with a view to ensuring that the courses we offer are       relevant to the       needs of people who have much to contribute to the social conversation,       but lack the       confidence or verbal skills to make themselves heard.
[D]     As further evidence of the research's scope, the `Youth Amplified'       resources have also been used       throughout a series of workshops from January to May 2013, aimed at       encouraging youth       participation in local government.
This has had a notable impact in the       capacity of youth       representatives in Leeds Youth Council, the UK Youth Parliament and the       Leeds Children in Care       Council to speak up about issues that affect them:     The training gave me more confidence in leading sessions during the Leeds       Youth Council       meetings, and gave me the confidence needed to be an authority, and make       my voice heard.
(Student, Notre Dame College, Leeds, and Chair of Leeds Youth Council) [E]     As another example of the research's influence in informing and shaping       strategy and policy       provisions aimed at young people, its value has also been credited by       Leeds City Council, which is       providing a programme of training and personal development for the first       time ever, to equip       children and young people with the skills and confidence to meaningfully       contribute to decision       making processes:     [T]he findings of the research has given a good intellectual foundation       on which decisions about       the direction of youth voice and participation in Leeds can be based.
For       example, the research       has proved useful when designing and writing the new 2013-2015 Children       and Young People's       Voice and Influence Strategy."
(Voice, Influence and Change Co-ordinator, Children's Services, Leeds City       Council) [E]
