     Most pregnant women in the UK and elsewhere consume caffeine from one or       more sources yet before the current work the evidence of any harm to the       fetus was inconclusive and a level at which harm may occur was unclear.
The CARE study overcame several limitations seen in previous studies.
Cade       developed a tool to accurately calculate an individual's caffeine intake       from all potential dietary and over-the-counter sources, taking into       account brands and preparation, rather than just a tally of coffee and tea       consumption.
The Leeds research also looked at the effects of caffeine       consumption across all trimesters and prior to conception, rather than       just a snapshot at one point in pregnancy.
In addition, the study took into account individual variations in       caffeine metabolism that can show marked differences due to genetics, but       also environmental factors such as nicotine.
Impact on public awareness of health risk     This robust study design showed that caffeine consumption during       pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of fetal growth restriction       at levels of 200mg/day and maybe even lower and that the association       continues throughout the whole of pregnancy.
[3]     Fetal growth restriction is an important outcome as it is associated with       an increased risk of perinatal mortality and morbidity.
[A] In addition,       there is epidemiological evidence that it correlates with adverse effects       in adult life.
For example, affected individuals have an increased       incidence of metabolic syndrome, manifesting as obesity, hypertension,       hypercholesterolemia, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes.
Clearly, reducing the risk of perinatal morbidity and mortality through       impact on birthweight is important for the long-term health and survival       of every child.
[B]     These results meant that for the first time women could be provided with       clear evidence and advice to reduce their caffeine intake before       conception and during the whole of pregnancy.
Further analysis led by Greenwood and published in 2010 showed a strong       link between caffeine consumption in the first trimester and late       miscarriage and stillbirth, further proving the harm associated with       caffeine in pregnancy.
[4]     Impact on public policy and services     In 2008, the team presented their results to COT who, in light of the       evidence, decided to review their guidance and publish new recommendations       to coincide with the publication of the CARE study.
A statement (in 2008) from COT, explicitly referring to the research at       Leeds, concluded that while it seems likely that risk of fetal growth       restriction is increased in association with caffeine intakes in the order       of 200 mg/day and perhaps even lower, the absolute increase in incidence       of fetal growth restriction from intakes less than this is likely to be       less than 2% of infants.
[C]     The FSA issued (in 2008) updated guidelines to women to limit their daily       caffeine intake to below 200mg/day, the equivalent to two mugs of coffee,       although caffeine is also present in tea, chocolate, some soft drinks, and       certain medicines.
[D] The previous advice had set a maximum daily intake       of 300mg.
This new advice, along with results from the CARE study, was featured in       national news reports in both the print and broadcast media, including BBC       News Online, The Times, Daily Mail and The Daily Telegraph.
[E] Professor Cade       briefed key stakeholders prior to publication of the study and the FSA       guidance.
The revised guidelines were taken up by the NHS[F] and included in the       Pregnancy Book, which is a highly trusted source of advice handed out to       all pregnant women (ca.
700,000 per year) England.
[G] The NHS Choices       website also contains these recommendations.
[H]     Through the direct impact of this work &#8212; on the advice given to pregnant       women &#8212; all families have the potential to benefit from this research.
Moreover, healthcare providers including, GPs, obstetricians and midwives       have clearer guidance for delivering appropriate prenatal care.
The Royal       College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists issued a statement to       highlight the updated advice.
[I]     Data on the potential impact of the advice on caffeine intake in pregnant       women for the relevant time period is not yet available.
However, it is       known that two thirds of infants who die have a low birth weight.
Data       from the Office for National Statistics show that for 2008-2010 the drop       in infant mortality in England and Wales was significantly steeper than       for the previous years at 4.5/1000 live births compared with4.8/1000 live       births in 2006-2008.
[J] While this reduction in the infant mortality rate       cannot solely be attributed to changing patterns of behaviour during       pregnancy in relation to caffeine, we are not aware of other guidance       directed at pregnant women during this time, that would have contributed       to this steeper rate of decline.
