 The programme of research described in this case study has resulted in three forms of impact:  Contributions to policy development, eg invited contribution to the UK House of Commons Select Committee and policy recommendations by an Australian charity (The Smith Family) The outcome of partnership projects, and practitioners' use of the eBAT toolkit Media and public engagement.
1.
Contributions to policy development in UK and more widely i.
House of Commons Select Committee inquiry on Behaviour and Discipline in Schools Pam Maras drew on findings from this case study to inform a response she co-authored from the British Psychological Society to the above inquiry.
She was subsequently invited to be a witness and provide oral evidence drawing on findings from the case study to the Select Committee Inquiry on 13 October 2010.
The first report of the inquiry, and the government's response, addressed points raised by Pam Maras.
For example, the report notes: "As [Professor Pam Maras] told us, schools find it very difficult to interpret SEN policies in relation to behaviour, because, of course, behaviour is also dealt with through disciplinary action."
The Government's response was linked to further points raised by Pam Maras (see p19, p9 and 30, p14), and a subsequent green paper on special educational needs and disability stated "a clear expectation that schools should invest in training their staff on identification of special educational needs and on links between special educational needs and behaviour", a point further stressed in the government commitment to "improving the initial training of, and continued professional development opportunities for teachers to make sure that the right focus is given to developing their knowledge of special educational needs and behaviour".
Pam Maras' evidence that there was a potential link between behaviour difficulties in adolescence and mental health problems in adulthood was also picked up in the government green paper, which stated: "Many young people with behavioural issues or SEN also have mental health problems.
Schools face major challenges in securing specialist and therapeutic services in order to make accurate assessments of need and to implement appropriate interventions."
The green paper proposed: "The Department of Health and the Department for Education should pilot, with a number of Behaviour and Attendance Partnerships, a mechanism by which they can commission CAMHS services accountable to them locally."
(Paragraph 133) (see 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8) ii.
Westminster Briefing Following the inquiry, Pam Maras took part in an invited Westminster Briefing on 14 July 2011 on `Behaviour and Discipline in Schools: New Strategies and A New Approach to Improve Standards'.
Attendees included policy makers, head teachers and others involved with behaviour in schools (copy of invitation available).
iii.
Policy recommendations by an educational charity in Australia (The Smith Family) Pam Maras' programme of research underpinning this case study has also been utilised by an Australian NGO, `The Smith Family', in recommendations in a report on school and communities' roles in enabling students to achieve their educational aspirations (see 5.9).
2.
Engagement with external partners and use of `about me' and eBAT The following three examples of partnerships all utilised the eBAT toolkit: i.
The CROIS project Findings from this case study informed an EU funded two year intervention called the CROIS project with schools and young people in the UK and France (http://www.crois.eu/) led by Pam Maras, which put in place activities to address factors that limit youth aspirations and social mobility.
Non-academic partners in schools and policy were involved and there were significant changes in the aspirations of over 120 French and UK adolescents (see 5.10).
ii.
Partnership with the Royal Borough of Greenwich Behaviour and Attendance Partnership A collaborative project began in 2011 between Greenwich Behaviour and Attendance Partnership and Pam Maras.
Drawing on research underlying case study, Pam Maras' research team worked with the Behaviour and Attendance team to enable them to work in an evidence- based way whist maintaining a high quality service.
The eBAT was made available to the team as a means of measuring the impact of interventions pre and post provision, in order to demonstrate the extent to which needs and targets were met and problems addressed (see 5.4).
iii.
Greenwich Mencap `GreenLights' project GreenLights is a support service run by Greenwich Mencap for families of young people aged between 5 and 18 who have either a learning disability, a learning disability and autistic spectrum condition, or a learning disability and additional behavioural difficulties.
Drawing on research outlined in this case study, Pam Maras' research team has been working in partnership with Greenwich Mencap for 18 months to demonstrate the effectiveness of GreenLights, including utilising the eBAT tools for pre and post testing intervention measures, and developing a programme to train people to administer the GreenLights project and improve its sustainability.
Initial work was funded by a National Lottery award to Greenwich Mencap.
Pam Maras has been awarded an Innovation, Diffusion and Excellence award in Healthcare Education and Training from South London Health Authority (&#163;43,577) to disseminate outcomes of the partnership (see 5.2).
3.
Media and public engagement Public engagement and dissemination are important features of both Pam Maras' research programme and that of the Applied Psychology Research Group (APRG) at the University of Greenwich: examples of this can be found in media activity and engagement with a wider audience including via a twitter feed: https://twitter.com/RC_CSF, user-friendly reports and partnership involvement which are publicised on the Research Centre for Children Schools and Families website.
Findings of the research programme on which this case study is based have been shared via paper and virtual media, as well as in broadcast media in UK and more widely.
For example, Pam Maras was interviewed by the Chinese Broadcasting Company, in 2008, on this work and was an invited panel member on Radio Russia on April 4, 2012, to discuss equipping those in the teaching profession to be able to work with the wide range of issues relating to students with behaviour problems (see 5.3).
