     (a) `Ring-fencing the BBC's children's programme budget': Consultancy         for OFCOM Ofcom commissioned Messenger Davies to write a Literature       Review for its report on `The Future of Children's Television in the UK'       (2007).
Since then Davies has continued to contribute to the Ofcom       research department with a real impact on how its policy nationally has       developed.
As Alison Preston, Head of Media Literacy Research at Ofcom,       has said: `Both your academic literature review and also your previous       research ... were used in our thinking and analysis ... and consequent       policy recommendations.
One of the related outcomes of this Review was       that the BBC ring-fenced its children's programming budget.'
(b) Helping to win a local TV licence: CMR and Voice of the Listener         and Viewer (VLV) As a Board member of the broadcasting consumer       group VLV until 2011, Davies organised and spoke at a number of VLV public       events, and in November 2011 she organised a joint seminar with Ofcom, VLV       and the University of Ulster's CMR in Belfast on the question of local       television franchises in the UK.
This event was attended by programme       makers, policy makers and educators and resulted in the awarding of a       contract to a Northern Ireland production company.
The importance of the       CMR research to this decision was confirmed by NI Ofcom Director, Jonathan       Rose in an email, dated 10th October 2012.
(c) Training, Briefing and Promoting the work of Children's TV         Producers     (i) IZI Munich:     The International study of Children's Humour, reported in RAE2008, was       conducted by the International Central Institute for Youth and Educational       Television (IZI), Munich in association with among others, the University       of Ulster's CMR.
The study continued to have an impact internationally       during this reporting period via the Prix Jeunesse, the international       network on quality in children&#180;s TV.
The Prix Jeunesse foundation       organizes advanced training courses for television producers all over the       world.
In relation to the study, the Director of IZI, wrote in an email       dated 13th May 2013: `The project proved itself very valuable       for international advanced training courses.
It was presented ... more       than 15 times in different countries, including: 2008 TRT, Bodrum       (Turkey); 2010 Cinekid, Amsterdam (Netherlands); 2010 La Segunda Muestra;       Iberoamericana de Televisi&#243;n Infantil, Bogota (Colombia) and the 2011 PRIX       Iberoamericano, Sao Paulo (Brazil)'     (ii) Children's Media Foundation (CMF).
Davies is a founder member       of the CMF Board.
One of its aims is `to support the production of media       for children and young people in the UK while embracing stimulating       content from all parts of the world'.
http://www.thechildrensmediafoundation.org/wordpress/about-us/aims       CMF Director, Greg Childs, wrote: `Her contribution to the growth       of this new organisation has been considerable.
(d) Informing the BBC's Media Literacy Strategy: BBC Factual and         Learning In 2012 Davies was commissioned by the Media Literacy       section of BBC's Factual and Learning department to produce a strategic       review of Media Literacy to inform production decisions.
The BBC's Media       Literacy Strategy was published in May 2013; the BBC editor of the       strategy wrote to Davies to thank her as a `key contributor', noting:       `Your [Media Literacy] report is referenced numerous times in our BBC       Media Literacy strategy'.
The report is available at: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learning/overview/about/assets/bbc_media_literacy_strategy_may2013.pdf     (e) Improving Newsround: AHRC/BBC KEP Project       The AHRC/BBC funded KEP project, was a `four-nation' study involving       academics and teachers from Cardiff, Bournemouth, Glasgow and Ulster, and       a number of BBC producers.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/knowledgeexchange/cardifftwo.pdf     (f) Contributing to the Media Reform campaign: Leveson Arising       from her work on young people and news, Davies is part of a group of       academics and media workers in the Co-ordinating Committee for Media       Reform (CCMR) who worked closely with journalists, lawyers and policy       makers to inform the Leveson Inquiry into the conduct of the press.
Her       contribution to this debate is on the Leveson website at http://www.levesoninquiry.org.uk/evidence/?witness=professor-maire-messenger-davies       This was posted on March 28 2012 on the Inquiry Website.
This was in       response to an email from Leveson Inquiry General Inquiries, 27th       January 2012: `Thank you for your submission/witness statement to the       Inquiry.
The information that you have provided is relevant to the Inquiry       and we therefore would like to publish it as part of the Inquiry's       official record'.
