     As the first ever quantitative assessment of the impact of a future       Icelandic Laki-type eruption on       air quality and human health, the research conducted at the University of       Leeds provided evidence       (i.e., the number of potential fatalities due to a future Laki-type       eruption), which resulted in policy       changes by the UK Government.
Specifically, Leeds research has led to the       recognition of gas and       aerosol particle hazards arising from Icelandic volcanism in addition to       previously recognised       hazards arising from volcanic ash.
Government contingency planning now       takes account of the       high risk that a gas-rich eruption could have on society.
Volcanic gas and aerosol hazards: impact on UK contingency planning         and policy     During the April to May 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallaj&#246;kull in Iceland, the       UK government activated       the Cabinet Office Briefing Room (COBR) to ensure that the multi-sector       impacts of the eruption       were fully understood and that any response was effective and underpinned       by scientific evidence.
During this time, COBR activated the Scientific Advisory Group for       Emergencies (SAGE) chaired       by the 2008-2013 Chief Scientific Adviser Sir John Beddington.
Wilson       was invited to lead the       SAGE subgroup on sulphur dioxide (SO2).
In May 2010, Schmidt       presented to this subgroup the       first quantitative assessment of the potential effects that a future       Laki-type eruption could have on       the air quality and human health in Europe and the UK [A].
Consequently, SAGE advised UK       government on the range of Icelandic volcanic eruption types that could       impact UK society.
Stemming from this scientific dissemination, in January 2012 the generic       risk of volcanic hazards       was added for the first time to the UK National Risk Register (NRR) [A].
Two types of eruptions are       described: gas-rich Laki-type eruptions and explosive ash-rich eruptions.
In the 2012 NRR, Laki-type       eruptions were given the second highest impact score (4 out of 5) with a       relative likelihood of       occurring in the next five years of between 1 in 200 and 1 in 20; that is       the same planning priority       scenario as coastal flooding events (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/national-risk-         register-for-civil-emergencies-2013-edition; accessed 28 August       2013).
Both the inclusion of Laki-type eruptions to the UK NRR and the research       published by the Leeds       aerosol group [1] in September 2011 led the government's Civil       Contingencies Secretariat (CCS)       to request the British Geological Survey (BGS) to conduct an expert       assessment of Laki-type       eruptions [A, B].
This work was required to verify that the       current state of knowledge and scientific       data regarding these gas-rich eruptions are reflected in the NRR (i.e.
the       NRR is updated if the       evidence base changes).
In May 2012, the BGS organised a workshop based at CCS in London to       gather experts from       various fields (volcanology, epidemiology and atmospheric science).
This       workshop produced a       report on "Large magnitude fissure eruptions in Iceland: source         characterisation" (with Schmidt as       a co-author) to advise CCS about current knowledge and future research       needs [B].
The report       describes the source characteristics of a Laki-type eruption, based on       expert elicitation that can be       used for probabilistic risk assessment [B].
Since May 2012, CCS has been in regular contact with the Leeds team to       discuss recent findings       and future research needs including funding, which will provide further       characterisation of the risks       from volcanic eruptions in Iceland.
Since 2013, Schmidt has been       member of an expert group       established by CCS and BGS that meets at regular intervals to advise CCS       strategy and policy,       and she is also an independent member of the CCS project board "Effusive       volcanic eruption", part       of the CCS High Impact Hazards programme working to increase the UK's       preparedness to       respond to the hazards such as a Laki-type eruption [A].
Increasing public awareness     The underpinning 2011 publication [1] was reported in       international science publications, such as       Nature Geoscience, Science Now and in mainstream news publications such as       Der Spiegel [C].
The widespread coverage (including the broadcast documentaries described       below) has increased       public awareness of volcanic hazards, and of their potentially serious       impact on health and       disruption to wider society.
In June 2012, Schmidt contributed to the joint production of       scientific documentaries on Icelandic       volcanism (NOVA "Doomsday Volcanoes" and Channel 5 "Ashcloud Apocalypse")       which       highlighted Laki-type eruptions; the programmes featured Schmidt's       scientific results extensively.
The January 2013 US premiere of the programme reached an audience of 4.5       million viewers [D].
The Channel 5 documentary premiered on 26 April 2013 in the UK [E].
