     Cranfield's research has supported government reforms of the abstraction       licensing system and informed regulation and water management strategies       during periods of drought, helping minimise financial impacts on       agricultural abstractors and economic impacts to the rural economy.
It has       underpinned improvements in on-farm water management and efficiency.
It       has enabled farmers, processors and retailers to understand the       water-related risks in the fresh produce supply chain.
It has also       informed farmers and government on the value of water for farming, and       supported investment in on-farm water storage, and other adaptations to       water scarcity.
The research has been undertaken in close collaboration with key       government agencies and departments (MAFF, DETR, Defra, EA, SEPA and       Natural England), and the UK agricultural levy boards.
Non-governmental       collaborators included organisations representing the farming industry       such as the National Farmers Union and the UK Irrigation Association,       retailers including Marks &amp; Spencer and Sainsbury's, and environmental       stakeholders such as the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and       WWF-UK.
This broad engagement ensured that the research was suitable for       both informing policy development and supporting the rapidly changing food       and farming sector.
Water Resources Management and Regulation     In the UK, especially eastern England, water for agricultural irrigation       is a critical component of high-value crop production; a major contributor       to the rural economy.
More than 1000 farming businesses depend on water to       supply premium quality produce to food manufacturers and retailers,       providing over 30% of potatoes and 25% of all fruit and vegetables       produced in the UK.
Together the agri-food industry employs over 50,000       people and contributes some &#163;3 billion annually to the economy of eastern       England.
Cranfield's research has provided the framework for regional and national       actions to improve UK agricultural water management.
Our researchers       forecast irrigation water demand for the Environment Agency's water       resource strategies in 2000 and 2008 [1], and for Defra in 2002 (in the       Climate Change and Demand for Water Revisited study) [2] and in 2013 (in       support of Defra abstraction reform).
They have informed sector-specific       water strategies for the agri-food and horticultural industry (HDC) [3]       and regional development programmes for agriculture (EEDA).
Our research forms the basis of the procedure used by the Environment       Agency [4] and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) [5] to       assess abstraction licence applications; in particular; what constitutes       `reasonable' water allocation for an irrigated farm.
By combining this research with microbiological studies, our work has       informed the development of guidelines for the horticultural industry       where there are public health risks associated with using low quality       river water for irrigation of crops eaten raw [6].
Internationally, Cranfield research has been applied in key studies for       the European Commission, including assessments of water saving in       agriculture and underpinned the EC's development of a "Blueprint to       Safeguard Europe's Water Resources" [7].
Climate change impacts and adaptation     We have advised governments and industry clients on adaptation policy in       both the UK and internationally by combining crop growth and irrigation       models.
This has provided underpinning data for the UK Foresight study on       Land Use Futures [8] and to examine the impacts on changes in land       suitability for non-irrigated crops, which directly affects irrigation       demand.
A booklet summarising the climate impacts and adaptation options       for the UK potato industry [9] based on our work was disseminated to over       3000 farming businesses by the AHDB levy board (PCL).
This research led to       Knox being appointed Agriculture Sector champion in the government's first       Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA).
Improving on-farm water efficiency     The regional development agencies (EEDA, EMDA, SEEDA) have used       Cranfield's research on the economics of reservoir investment and benefits       of irrigation to assess grant applications for investment in farm       reservoirs.
Information booklets summarising our research outputs on       improving irrigation efficiency, switching technology, coping with       droughts and reservoir investment have been disseminated by the water       regulator (EA) to over 5000 abstractors in England and Wales, as well as       farming businesses, regulatory agencies, government (Defra) and other       stakeholders.
Cranfield's approach has been widely commended by both the water       regulator and farming community.
The impacts of our integrated programme       of irrigation research, and strong commitment to knowledge transfer into       the food and farming industry, have been recognised internationally.
In       2010, Weatherhead and Knox received the WATSAVE Annual Award "for       outstanding contribution to water savings and water conservation in       agriculture, thereby enhancing the beneficial and sustainable use of this       precious resource" from the International Commission on Irrigation and       Drainage (ICID) [10].
