     Cranfield's research on improved soil management planning through       enhanced spatial information has informed policy development related to       soils at national, European and international levels, allowing nations to       adopt new approaches for the soil mapping of their land mass, and more       effective management of strategically important land assets.
Policy Development     Cranfield's research on soil assessment is supporting decision makers at       the European and global levels, and has been widely recognised.
At the       European scale, it has been described as "a major step towards a better         understanding of the soils of Europe and their diversity, thus fostering         and strengthening the commitment of the European Union to protect and         preserve our soil" by Janez Potocnik, Commissioner for Science and       Research (EC 2005) and Stavros Dimas, Commissioner for Environment (EC       2005) [1].
Cranfield's work on the soil atlas of Africa has also been described by       Maire Geoghegan-Quinn as "raising public awareness on the importance         and the key role of soil in Africa as a non-renewable resource essential         to human existence.
In doing so, it supports the development of         protective measures to safeguard soils for future generations" and       by Professor Jos&#233; Graziano da Silva, Director-General of the UN FAO as "perfectly         supporting the ideals of the FAO-led `Global Soil Partnership'".
[2]     In carrying out underpinning research for such initiatives, Cranfield has       applied its landscape models to pilot areas in SE England, Central Europe,       Hungary and Morocco.
Such technologies have now been adopted by the       European Union, Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) and FAO       [3] for global soil terrain assessment, and are currently being applied in       high resolution mapping of soil properties in Africa.
Cranfield's research on digital soil assessment has also informed policy       for Defra and the Scottish Executive Environment and Rural Affairs       Department (SEERAD), where this functional based approach to soil has       demonstrated that it can be used to assist decision-making for a       particular catchment level [4].
This method, developed further with the       Macaulay Institute [5], now forms the basis of the current Scottish Soil       Framework [6].
National Soil Surveys     Cranfield has developed and assisted in the implementation of the Irish       National Soil Survey Scheme.
This is based on our soil-landscape modelling       framework.
It has created a new soil map and spatial database of soil       properties for the whole of the Republic of Ireland.
This has benefited       the Irish Environmental Protection Agency by providing high quality soils       data for the whole of the Country, saving approximately &#8364;50 million and       has allowed delivery within five years compared to 25 years by       conventional methods [7].
Management of Strategically Important Land Assets     Cranfield's multi-functional soil landscape modelling has been used by       the UK Ministry of Defence to predict soil physical conditions, in       particular soil moisture, on a daily basis.
Combining soil landscape       modelling with real-time soil moisture monitoring has allowed Defence       Estates to improve the usage of military training grounds covering more       than 300 km2, whilst ensuring that ecological and soil       integrity is maintained in these areas.
The Infrastructure Transactions Research Consortium (ITRC),       Infrastructure UK (IUK), Defra and Infrastructure Operators in the UK,       have also used a similar digital soil assessment approach based on       Cranfield's work to determine the vulnerability of infrastructure to soil       geohazards (e.g.
erosion, subsidence, shrink / swell) under current       conditions and future climate scenarios.
In this work a probabilistic soil       model was superimposed on the critical infrastructure network of the UK at       25x25 km grid resolution, and in specific case studies at 5x5 km grid       resolution [8].
In a parallel project a similar probabilistic soil       landscape model was used by Lincolnshire County Council to determine       soil-related geohazards to roadways and other linear infrastructure to       prioritise roads at risk from environmental conditions.
