 1.
Contributing to the Arts Council's Troubles Archive In 2009 McLoone was commissioned by the Arts Council of Northern Ireland (ACNI) to write a pamphlet on film and television representations of the Troubles as part of ACNI's 'Troubles' archive (a box set of twelve commissioned pamphlets that looks at the response of various art forms to the conflict).
As ACNI Communications Officer, points out, `Prof. McLoone was selected as one of our art form essayists on the basis of his professional standing as a leading expert in the field and on the strength of his body of previous publications.'
The Arts Council has distributed the archive to all public libraries across Northern Ireland and has again confirmed, it `has presented many essay sets to visiting dignitaries and policy influencers and has responded to numerous requests for the essays from overseas universities and researchers'.
2.
Social Inclusion and Reconciliation (i) Cahal McLaughlin and Jolene Mair's Unseen Women: Armagh Gaol (2010), part of the Prisons Memory archive, is a documentary film on the experiences of prison staff and the female prisoners during the Troubles.
It has been screened at Belfast Exposed Gallery, Feile an Phobail, Belfast and Armagh Local History Library.
At Belfast Exposed, the screening was accompanied by four workshops: 1) A `50 Plus' group from West Belfast; 2) A16-18 years old group from Southern Regional College; 3) A workshop with participants in the film; 4) A workshop with practitioners in oral history.
78 people attended the Armagh public screening, which was followed by a full discussion with an audience that ranged from 16 year olds to pensioners (evaluation forms available).
The evaluations confirm that the film and the methodology that it proposes, has had a positive impact on people's perception of the `other side' and has facilitated inter-communal dialogue and post conflict reconciliation.
3.
Social Inclusion and Reconciliation (ii) Unheard Voices: Stories from the Troubles (2009) was produced with WAVE Trauma Centre in Ballymoney and screened at 7 public venues organised by the Good Relations Departments of Ballymena, Coleraine, Moyle, Derry, Lisburn, Newtownards, Belfast and Newtownabbey Borough Councils.
Total audience figures are now over 500 and each screening was followed by a discussion.
The film proposed a method of dealing with trauma and memory for victims of the troubles, or the families of victims, and has been adopted as a methodology in dealing with post-conflict memory and offers a methodology for post-conflict work in many international contexts.
Detailed feedback confirms that the film and its innovative approach to trauma and memory has had a deep impact on formerly isolated victims and has helped in the understanding of conflict resolution.
4.
Social Inclusion and Reconciliation (iii) The CMR-supported film Inside Stories: Memories of the Maze and Long Kesh Prison (2005) (submitted to the 2008 RAE) is based on selections from the Prisons Memory Archive (PMA).
It has had a substantial national and international profile since then, being screened at the South Bank Digital Gallery (2008), Constitution Hill, Johannesburg (2008), Naughton Gallery, Belfast (2009), Belfast Prison (as part of Respect Week 2009).
Other selections of material from the PMA have been screened, along with discussions, at Wolverhampton Gallery in 2010, International Oral History Association, Prague (2010), Irish Studies Association, Rennes (2010), International Society of Political Psychology, Paris (2009), Landscapes of War, Valencia (2009), and Interrogating Trauma, Perth (2008).
The film proposes a methodology of dealing with memory and conflict developed in the University of Ulster and has had an impact specifically in other former conflict cultures, especially South Africa where a similar process of post-conflict reconciliation has been proceeding in parallel with that in Northern Ireland.
5.
Social Inclusion and Reconciliation (iv) Greg McLaughlin and Steve Baker's book The Propaganda of Peace has also had an impact on Northern Ireland's post-conflict culture as well as providing a test case for peace-building in general.
The argument of the book has been taken out to the community beyond academia, the findings disseminated widely across all communities in Northern Ireland and further afield.
Central to the impact strategy was discussion and workshop engagement including workshops with formerly excluded groups in the Northern Ireland Peace process, especially ex-prisoners.
The book was taken up by the ex-prisoner group ExPAC in its Conflict of Interest programme: e.g.
Monaghan VEC, Donegal Community Workers' Cooperative and The Rural Community Network bringing a new constituency into the democratic process.
