     Policy Impact     LSTM research findings changed WHO and the CDC strategies, treatment       guidelines and recommendations.
In 2012 the WHO OEPA adopted doxycycline       for the treatment of residual cases in the North-Eastern focus in       Venezuela.
Attention to operational elements of the river blindness       programme in the Americas is highly necessary in order to achieve and       maintain the elimination of transmission.
The geographically hard to reach       location of the affected area coupled with the migratory nature of the       population make it especially difficult to maintain regular treatments.
OEPA refers to the use of an alternate antibiotic doxycycline as ensuring       full elimination of infection and transmission [7].
The WHO GPELF endorsed the use of doxycycline as a new tool for morbidity       management of elephantiasis in 2012.
The Global Task Force for Health's       2012 monitoring and evaluation working group on disease specific       indicators, endorsed the use of doxycycline (6 weeks) for individual       treatment of adults as an alternative, [8, page 6].
It also refers to the       use of doxycycline for adults (200 mg/day) for 6 weeks as an alternative       and two LSTM studies [4,6].
The sixth meeting of the WHO Strategic and       Technical Advisory Group for NTD's also states "for clinical cases, any of       the following regimens have been proposed and may be considered, for       adults, doxycycline (200 mg/day) for 6 weeks is under consideration as an       alternative" [9].
The WHO report from the 2009 Inter-American Conference on Onchocerciasis       concluded that "progress towards eliminating river blindness in the region       of the Americas" and noted that a 6- week course of daily oral doxycycline       has been shown to kill adult O. volvulus worms.
Doxycycline kills       endosymbiotic bacteria (Wolbachia) that provide important       nutritional requirements to the worms; without the bacteria the worms       become sterile and slowly die.
The conference recommended that national       programmes consider providing doxycycline treatment (but necessarily       exclude young children and pregnant women) on a selective basis [10].
CDC recommends doxycycline treatment options for onchocerciasis [11] and       lymphatic filariasis [12] to health professionals.
One objective of the       A2219WOL programme is to promote advocacy of A2219WOL's outcomes by       interfacing with CNTD and external scientific advisors to facilitate       dialogue, representation and engagement with control programmes: the       African Programme for Onchocerciasis Control (APOC), OEPA and GPELF,       stakeholder meetings and NTD community forums.
The membership of the       A2219WOL Consortium and the External Scientific Advisory Committee (ESAC)       in particular is ideally equipped through its excellent networks to       promote the findings and practical opportunities the A2219WOL project       provides.
The AWOL ESAC includes key stakeholder members from APOC, OEPA, GPELF,       the Mectizan Donation Program [13], Drugs for Neglected Diseases       initiative (DNDi) and NTD Global Health experts [14] (Prof David       Molyneux-former LSTM).
In addition, the publication of A2219WOL research       findings in both high impact journals and at international conferences and       meetings is an ongoing process which adds to the evidence base in order to       advocate for the implementation of an anti-Wolbachia based approach       for filariasis therapy.
CDC Recommended Treatment regime for Onchocerca volvulus-         based on LSTM research                                Usage/Drug           Adult Dose           Pediatric dose                             To kill microfilariae:             ivermectin           150 mcg/kg orally in one dose             every 6 months           150 mcg/kg orally in one dose             every 6 months                             To kill macrofilariae:             doxycycline           200 mg orally daily             for 6 weeks           200 mg orally daily             for 6 weeks                          Commercial Impact     The breakthrough of anti-wolbachial therapy stimulated the creation of       both product discovery and development pipelines at LSTM to identify new       antibiotics which target Wolbachia and could be used to combat       elephantiasis and river blindness.
Since 2007, LSTM has been working with industrial partners through       A2219WOL collaborations [15] with CombinatoRx, Forma Therapeutics,       Paratek, Inventa Technologies (S) Pte Ltd, Anacor Pharmaceuticals Inc,       Abbott/AbbVie, Pfizer Inc, Bio-focus DPI Ltd, SIMM (Shanghai Institute of       Materia Medica), AstraZeneca, Dupont, Broad Institute, MMV, DNDi, and TB       Alliance plus others to discover and develop drugs that work to clear the       Wolbachia symbiont, but can do so in a treatment course of 7 days       or less and be safe for children and in pregnancy &#8212; where a 4-6 week       course of doxycycline cannot be given.
LSTM research led, in 2013, to both the A2219WOL Macrofilaricide Drug       Discovery project, progressing six new chemical series towards       pre-clinical candidate selection, and the A2219WOL Macrofilaricide Drug       Development project, taking the best registered and re-purposed drugs from       LSTM's screening campaign to optimise the best combination of drugs for       MDA programmes.
Both A2219WOL programs include collaboration with       pharmaceutical companies providing industrial investment to cover the       entire drug discovery and development process.
