     HIV presents a significant health burden in Kenya with an estimated       104,000 infected children and 1,192,000 persons living with HIV infection       in 2012 [8].
Early treatment has been associated with a 96% reduction in       onwards transmission of HIV and theoretical modelling has shown that       testing scale-up accompanied by treatment could lead to the eradication of       HIV within a decade.
LSTM's research has increased testing, both directly       through the changes in policy and systems in Kenya and indirectly through       the scalable quality assured services delivered in institutions like LVCT.
Health Impact     LVCT was founded by Dr Taegtmeyer to exploit the LSTM research findings       on best practice for the delivery of quality assured HTC.
The finding       shaped the NGO's practice and is maintained today through methodologies       documented by Taegtmeyer and referenced within the Kenya National       Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) guidelines in 2010 [9].
LVCT has       grown into an internationally acclaimed indigenous Kenyan organisation       (t/o US$ 9.2m pa).
Dr. Kilonzo, Director of LVCT, completed her PhD at       LSTM.
LVCT continues to have a direct reach in HTC services in Kenya, as       shown in the graph and supports post rape care services in 84 health       facilities in 2012.
The principles established in the early research have       enabled rapid scale-up including mobile, outreach and home-based testing.
A sound quality basis has facilitated adaptations to enable services for       the deaf and other vulnerable groups including MSM and post-rape cases.
The LVCT annual report [10] documents delivery of quality assured HIV and       counselling to 1,159,970 clients, with 223,645 children, couples, MSM,       persons with disabilities and sex workers in 2012.
Levels of HIV testing       have increased with 72% of adults aged 15 to 64 years in 2012 reporting       ever having been tested for HIV, a significant increase from 34% in 2007.
HIV prevalence among adults aged 15 to 64 years decreased nationally from       7.2%, to 5.6% in 2012, as indicated in the Kenya AIDs Indicator Survey       [8].
The methodology documented by Taegtmeyer and LVCT was rolled out in 2008       onwards in other African countries and multiplied through WHO policies and       guidelines.
Partner agencies include the Ministries of Health in Ethiopia       (focus on access to disadvantaged populations), Cote d'Ivoire (home       testing) and Botswana and Tanzania [11] (quality assurance).
The 2012       CDC/WHO handbook for planning, implementing and monitoring home-based HTC       in high prevalence countries, was developed by Taegtmeyer and is globally       available [12].
Policy Impact     Kenya: Dr Taegtmeyer was part of the editorial team of the first       national guideline for VCT in Kenya.
This was used as the basis for the       updated guidelines in 2007 and the later second edition in 2010 [9] with a       focus on provider initiated counselling and testing, quality improvement       systems and inclusion of the option for HIV self-testing.
The guideline       changed practice and the approach to HTC with the establishment of a QA       taskforce that developed a QA strategy for HTC linked to the new       guidelines.
The initial Kenyan quality assurance resource pack published       in 2003 has been the basis of the 2012 National Quality Management       Guidance Framework [13] for HIV testing and counselling in Kenya 2012.     International: LSTM research findings on HTC have gained       considerable attention of international policy makers and significantly       impacted policy on HTC in the WHO and at the US government's Centres for       Disease Control (CDC).
Taegtmeyer was a member of the PEPFAR counselling       and testing team from 2007 - 2012.
Taegtmeyer was the primary writer of       WHO's Handbook for Improving HIV Testing and Counselling Services,       published in 2010, translated into French and Mandarin [14].
Taegtmeyer       also led the writing of a Practical Handbook on Planning, Implementing and       Monitoring Home-based HTC [12], and was part of the core writing group of       the Operational and Service Delivery Guideline Development Group for the       WHO ART guidelines in 2013 [15].
Recommendations from the WHO on HIV       re-testing were published in 2010 in French and English [15] and       Taegtmeyer led on the expert consultation on acute HIV infection in       Atlanta which was the basis of these recommendations.
LSTM initiated the       first ever international symposium on self-testing for HIV, Taegtmeyer and       Theobald contributed to the consensus statement agreed by UNAIDS, WHO, and       the Brocher Foundation in April 2013 [17, page 33], on the legal, ethical,       gender, human rights and public health implications of HIV self-testing       scale up.
Special acknowledgements were made to Taegtmeyer in the meeting       report.
[17, page 34]     UK: The research in 2009 led the Liverpool Centre for Sexual       Health to adopt point of care testing as a direct consequence of the pilot       and it is now in routine clinical use for HIV same day testing service,       (730 POCT in 2012) targeting at risk individuals and was presented in a       national forum that saw the beginning of the scale-up of point of care       services in a range of sexual health clinics in the UK [18].
