     Research undertaken by the Structural Biology Group at the University of       Oxford has not only had a broad impact on the programmes of several       pharmaceutical companies, and the quality of life of those living with       HIV, it also continues to inform efforts aimed at the development of       improved anti-HIV compounds 7.
Commercialisation:       The GW695634 chemical series, which became the prodrug for GW678248 has       led to the production of a powerful NNRTI active against efavirenz- and       nevirapine-resistant HIV-1 viruses.
Following phase II trials undertaken       by GlaxoWellcome in 2005, this NNRTI has since been licensed to a number       of pharmaceutical companies around the world for drug development.
Most       NNRTIs approved for the clinic from 2000 onwards were optimised based on       the Stuart Groups structure-based design.
These include etravirine, which       was developed by Johnson &amp; Johnson, and rilpiravine a second       generation NNRTI with an improved therapeutic index, both of which are       produced by Tibotec Pharmaceuticals 8.
Pfizer, the largest       pharmaceutical company in the world, replicated the protein constructs and       crystallization methods from the University of Oxford's Stuart Group,       using similar structural information to conceive new drug targets.
As a       result Pfizer produced X-ray protein structures of all of their key       anti-HIV compounds, several of which (including Lersivirine, formally       known as UK-453,061) advanced into clinical trials, but were never       licensed for therapy 9.
ViiV Healthcare, a specialist HIV       pharmaceutical company driven by GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer, is now       developing Lersivirine in Phase III trials.
There are currently 2 more       NNRTIs in late-stage development; Ardea BioScience's RDEA806 and ViiV's       GSK-2248761.
In addition, global pharmaceutical companies such as Gilead 10       and Merck11 have all used data from the Stuart Group in their       NNRTI drug development pipelines.
At present there are 5 NNRTIs licensed       for clinical use.
The anti-HIV drug sales market stood at $11.3billion in       2010 and this is projected to rise yearly by 4.6% (The Global Market for       AIDS/HIV testing and Treatment &#8212; BCC Research 2011).
Globally, there is an       increase in the use of HAART, which is reflected in these figures.
Patient Health &amp; Quality of Life       A recent epidemiological study, evaluating current issues in the       management of HIV-infected patients, found that the availability of potent       next-generation NNRTIs might offer improved therapy for       treatment-experienced patients, particularly those with multi-resistant       HIV.
The study also showed that new NNRTI drugs may reduce HIV       immunological and clinical progression, and as a result, may also reduce       treatment costs 12.
Median survival time after infection with       HIV without treatment is 11 years, contrasting with survival time close to       50 years for an HIV-infected individual treated from age 20 (UNAIDS       Reference Group for Estimates, Modeling and Projections, 2006).
After AIDS       diagnosis however, untreated individuals survive to 6-19 months post       diagnosis whereas with treatment many individuals recover to a stable       latent state of infection with survival rates of ~50 years, approximating       other HIV-infected individuals (Antiretroviral Therapy Cohort       Collaboration report, Lancet, 372:293-299, 2008).
In a study analysing the       cost-effectiveness of first line HAART regimens in UK patient groups over       the period 1996-2006, it was shown that a regimen of 2NRTIs + NNRTI was       the most effective therapy.
In comparison to the alternative regimen of       2NRTIs + PI (boosted) the study showed that the + NNRTI regimen saved       &#163;35,194 per annum in HAART treatments 13.
Effective HAART       therapy can now be shown to achieve survival rates for people living with       HIV equivalent to those in the general population 14,       emphasizing the success of new generation ART drug regimens.
Policy and Guidelines       Clinical guidelines worldwide now recommend NNRTIs in combination with       NRTIs as the first line therapy for HIV.
The standard HAART combination of       two NRTIs with an NNRTI, is recommended by the World Health Organization       in their guidelines for antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection in adults       and adolescents (last revised in 2010) 15.
The British HIV       Association guidelines for the treatment of HIV-infected adults with       antiretroviral therapy recommend the use of an efavirenz-based regimen as       the first line choice for patients with HIV 16.
They based       this recommendation on data, which has indicated the efficacy, low       toxicity and the ease of administration of efavirenz NNRTIs, which were       developed based on the Stuart Groups structure-based design.
