     This case demonstrates impact on practitioners and professional         sevices through our `Pathway to Impact &#8212; No.
4 (Benchmarking         Practices)', by stimulating debate within government and challenging       and changing recruitment practices.
ICWL has worked with Government for more than a decade to stimulate       change in the gender composition of corporate boards in the UK.
The most       significant impact of the research was through the Davies Report in 2011 [S1]       which drew extensively on the centre's Female FTSE report 2010.
As a       consequence the proportion of female board directors on FTSE100 companies       increased to 18.9% from 11.7% in 2008.
More than a decade of research by the ICWL revealed a slow rate of       increase in the proportion of women on corporate boards in the UK,       starting from a low base.
Sponsored by UK Government and industry, a       Government minister has launched these annual Female FTSE Reports which       receive extensive media coverage (the Financial Times gives a half page to       this) in the UK and beyond.
Since 2010 we have over 400 mainstream media       mentions.
Moreover, the credibility and authority of the report is widely       recognized by leading companies (e.g.
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Ernst &amp;       Young, Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group) and governments internationally       (e.g.
Australia, New Zealand), and provides the data for the UK Office of       National Statistics' Women on Boards (WoB) figures.
In 2009 the Government Equalities Office (GEO) commissioned two reports       from ICWL [S5; S6].
The Rt.
Hon.
Harriet Harman MP, then Deputy       Prime Minister and Minister for Women, used these in her appearance before       the Treasury Select Committee in relation to the financial crisis and the       role of boards in the autumn 2009.
In 2010, the Prime Minister Gordon Brown invited Prof Vinnicombe for       discussions at 10 Downing Street.
Following the 2010 election, Dr Sealy       briefed new ministerial aides on the position in relation to WoB.
The       CBI's Task Force Group on WoB invited her to advise in the preparation of       a report it published in December 2010 [S7].
In 2011, Prof Vinnicombe was invited to be one of six members of the       Steering Committee for the Government Review of Women on Boards chaired by       Lord Davies of Abersoch.
The Davies Report of 2011 [S1], which       drew extensively on the Female FTSE Report 2010, challenged Chairmen and       Chief Executives of UK companies on the issue of female representation on       boards.
The report made 10 recommendations, suggesting targets for female       representation on boards of FTSE-350 Companies by 2015, requiring policies       for boardroom diversity and disclosure of representation and the       appointments process.
The UK Government's Department for Business, Industry and Skills and the       GEO invited ICWL to conduct the Davies Interim Reports monitoring the       response of UK Companies to the recommendations.
The Prime Minister, David       Cameron, launched the first of these at Downing Street in October 2011.
Lord Davies's foreword to the Interim Report thanked Cranfield for "their       commitment over a long period to an important issue for the UK economy".
As the Davies Report (2012) [S2] said in 2012, within a year the       number of all-male boards in FTSE-100 companies had fallen from 21 to 11,       and by 19 to under 50% of FTSE-250 companies.
It also reported that the       UK's Financial Reporting Council following consultation had changed the       Corporate Governance Code requiring publicly listed companies in the UK to       address gender diversity on corporate boards.
In addition, the major       search firms, which conduct 80% of all FTSE 100 board appointments, had       heeded the Davies report's call for a Voluntary Code of Conduct (VCC)       regarding diversity of appointments [S8].
There are currently 36       signatories including Egon Zehnder International, Heidrick &amp;       Struggles, Odgers Berndtson and Russell Reynolds Associates.
In May 2012, Cranfield produced a report, commissioned by the Equality       &amp; Human Rights Commission monitoring the impact of the VCC on search       firm's practices.
Also in May, Dr Sealy was invited to present the UK's       approach to the issue of WoB to an EU delegation in Oslo as an input into       proposals from EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding for an EU directive       on increasing women's representation on boards.
In July 2013, a House of Lords enquiry invited Prof Vinnicombe and Dr       Sealy to give evidence to determine the UK government's response to the       proposed EU directive.
In November 2012, the Business Secretary, Rt Hon.
Vince Cable MP launched       the second Davies Interim Report at the London Stock Exchange.
The       Financial Reporting Council, the report's co- sponsors, asked Cranfield to       benchmark the early adopters of the changes to the Corporate Governance       Code [S4].
In April 2013 the Davies Report Two Years On [S3] and the Female       FTSE Report were launched at the CBI with Dr Vince Cable, Maria Miller       (Minister for Equality), Sir Roger Carr (President of the CBI), Lord       Mervyn Davies, Professor Vinnicombe and Dr Sealy.
The reports also       monitored the continuing increase in figures: the number of all-male       boards in the FTSE 100 has fallen to six, while in the FTSE-250 it had       fallen to 20.4%.
The headline figures for FTSE-100 WoB has risen to 18.9%:       this increase of more than 6% in the two years since the Davies report is       greater than the increase made over the entire previous decade.
