     This case demonstrates impacts on public policy, law and services       through our `Pathway to Impact' &#8212; No.
2 (Research Clubs) by       stimulating policy debate and legislative change.
Cranfield's research into the impact of flexible working on an       individual's performance at work has demonstrated that offering flexible       working arrangements to employees brings performance benefits to       organisations [S9].
This has informed debate in policy and       professional organisations in the UK and internationally.
A number of       policy documents have also cited our research as evidence.
The research was the sole source of evidence for the government to       introduce legislation extending the right to request flexible working       first to parents of older children, then to carers and finally to all       employees.
The government introduced a series of legislative amendments       broadening the scope to cover all employees in the UK.
Until the first       change only parents of children aged up to six, or up to 18 if the child       was disabled, were eligible to apply for flexible working arrangements.
Policy     Cranfield research influenced debate and policy development in national       and international organisations by providing evidence about the       implementation and outcomes of flexible working.
These organisations have       included the UK Equality and Human Rights Commission (an independent       statutory body with a mandate to challenge discrimination and protect and       monitor human rights), the Chartered Institute of Personnel and       Development (CIPD), Eurofound (the European Foundation for the Improvement       of Living and Working Conditions), the International Labour Organisation       (ILO) and the United Nations.
The research is cited in two documents published by the Equalities and       Human Rights Commission [S1, S2] demonstrating the business case       for flexible working.
The ILO also cited our research in a report on       working time and productivity [S4].
The CIPD used our work in a       Factsheet for members on Flexible Working.
Cranfield researchers presented the project findings and participated in       Expert Groups at the European Foundation, `Eurofound' (Dublin, June, 2011)       [S3] and the United Nations (New York, November, 2010).
The purpose       of the Eurofound expert meetings on `organisation of working time:       Implications for productivity and working conditions' was to feed into the       foundation's work in the field and to help identify priority areas for       future Eurofound research.
The purpose of the United Nations Expert Group on Work-Life Balance       Policies and Practice was to identify good practices and lessons learned       and to develop recommendations for policies and practices to strengthen       the implementation of work-life balance policies, including flexible       working arrangements, in the United Nations system globally.
Legislation     In April 2009 the Flexible working (Eligibility, Complaints and Remedies)       (Amendment) Regulations came into force [S6].
These regulations       extended the right to request flexible working arrangements to parents of       children up to 16 years of age - offering this opportunity to an       additional 4.5 million people (Department for Business, Enterprise and       Regulatory Reform.
(August 2008)).
Prior to this change the Secretary of       State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR), Rt Hon John       Hutton MP, commissioned Imelda Walsh, HR Director of J Sainsbury plc to       conduct an independent review and to examine the case for extending the       case for extending the right to request to parents of older children.
She       consulted the key researchers on this research project.
The report to the minister, the Walsh Review, published in May 2008 [S5]       drew extensively on our report, "Flexible Working and Performance:         summary of the research" (see section 2), as providing important and       exclusive evidence of the benefits which employers can gain from offering       flexible working practices to their employees, such as better retention       and improvements to productivity.
The subsequent consultation document       commissioned by BERR [S7] during the autumn 2008 also cited our       research report.
The government subsequently accepted the recommendations proposed in the       Walsh Review and amended the legislation to put them into effect.
In 2012 the Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg, announced plans to give       every employee in the UK the right to request flexible working       arrangements [S8].
These will come in to force in February 2014.
