     Point-of-care diagnostics for influenza     During the PortFastFlu EU FP7 project, Dr McNally was heavily involved in       the transfer of crucial background IP to industry and academia prior to       creating and validating reference laboratory quality diagnostic and       detection assays.
Benefitting organisations included the French SME       Genewave, the Spanish SMEs Gaiker and Ikerlan, and Whatman GE Healthcare,       all of whom adopted assay design practices based on Dr McNally's       scientific input.
Additionally the validation of testing procedures and       devices during the project was designed by Dr McNally, allowing the final       product to be tested to OIE reference laboratory standards.
This       invaluable input has resulted in a commercial product going to market for       the French SME Genewave in early 2011.
The product is built upon several       concepts developed in the project and for which three joint consortium       patents were filed in January 2011 (Source to corroborate 1).
The impact of rapid diagnosis of human cases of H5N1 infection was       quantified in a 2008 Lancet study (Source to corroborate 2) which       concluded that rapid point-of-care diagnosis of cases in humans would       allow more effective infection control measures and quicker delivery of       oseltamivir to patients.
The work performed also created multiple       opportunities for public outreach events educating the public on Influenza       and the benefits of rapid diagnostic research.
These included editorials       in the Lancet, and expert opinion to national and international media such       as BBC Radio 5, BBC Radio 4, and Naturenews.com (Sources to corroborate       3,4).
Rapid PCR-based detection system for Salmonella and Campylobacter     The TSB project PRADA with Enigma saw NTU develop a sample preparation       protocol for the ML Enigma diagnostic device which is incorporated into       the marketed product.
The sample preparation technique developed at NTU is       absolutely integral to the ability of the ML diagnostic device to be used       on any sample type, from faecal samples to respiratory samples.
This       ensures the ML is applicable to detection of any infectious agent from any       clinical sample type and is a truly multi- functional platform.
During the lifetime of the project Enigma secured substantial investment       from GlaxoSmithKline for development of their device for use in influenza       diagnostics (Source to corroborate 5).
Since then GSK has further invested       in a collaboration with Enigma on the commercialisation of the ML device       and assay development (Source to corroborate 6).
Currently the device,       incorporating NTUs sample preparation method along with an accompanying       Influenza rapid test to run on the device, forms the commercial portfolio       of Enigma.
Up to 30/04/2012 Enigma had a net worth of &#163;2.968 million,       total assets of &#163;6.63 million, and cash at bank of &#163;1.805 million.
Now that the Enigma ML device contains a sample preparation method able       to be used on any sample type, further collaborative funding is being       sought by Enigma and NTU to validate and commercialise the Campylobacter       assay developed by NTU for use in veterinary diagnostics.
Campylobacter       is the most commonly reported bacterial cause of gastroenteritis in the       developed world, thus the impact of the assay is predicted to be large and       sustained.
There are approximately 1.5M GP consultations for diarrhoea in       the UK every year.
Defra is now considering a national surveillance       programme for Campylobacter in poultry.
Assuming this covered all       broiler birds and pooled sampling was performed (100 birds) that would       mean approx.
1.2 million tests per annum.
Current tests cost between &#163;14       and &#163;44 so a target of &#163;12 would be very competitive.
Scaled up across the       EU and USA, this would mean 20 million tests and a total market potential       of &#163;240 million.
