     The research has impacted upon:             Creativity, Culture and Society: theatre productions and         astronomy activities which enhance understanding, inform values, and         engage communities with their local landscape and cultural heritage;        Developing Practitioners &amp; their Practice: changing teacher         training practice and increasing pupil attainment in conceptual         understanding and literacy;        Developing new models for Public Engagement: leading to         increased engagement with effective STEM education by young people and         their teachers, regionally, nationally and internationally          COSMOS(2008-2009) allowed 500 children (aged 4-6 years) to grasp       complex concepts about space and planets, through its multi-sensory and       multi-textual form(Source1).
Feedback from teachers and children(Source8)       showed theatre encouraging children's curiosity in the world around them       and engaging them in greater scientific understanding.
Children achieved       `secure' or `partial' understanding of all scientific concepts in COSMOS       compared to pre-performance evaluations.
Post-performance evaluation       showed for those schools where scientific follow-up took place, children       remembered planets and had a sense that stars, suns and moons were `beyond       the clouds', i.e.
in space.
A School reported the parallel literacy work       `had a huge impact on the writing attainment of children'.
Children said       the strategies helped them feel more positive about their writing.
COSMOS       demonstrated novelty in the levels of curiosity and understanding that       could be sustained by very young children through the       multi-sensory experiences they enjoyed; offering a new vehicle for       cross-curricula learning.
MOSEM(2007-2010), funded by the EU's Leonardo da Vinci programme,       built on its predecessor's results (SUPERCOMET and SUPERCOMET2 projects).
MOSEM involves 30 partners in 11 countries, involving 9 universities, 2       foundations and an educational company Simplicatus AS.
Testing and       dissemination was carried out with 13 upper-secondary schools and 8       valorisation partners,(Sources2&amp;4).
In the UK alone, over 400       pupils/students have been reached through over 20 presentations, at NTU       and in school outreach activities.
The project's Maglev Train,       (designed by Ireson NTU), was taken to a new level.
Evaluation by both       students and teachers showed that both groups are equally positive about       the learning materials and the success of the `Minds-on' presentation for       teaching superconductivity.
The positive response was independent of       student gender or teacher background.
"It is interesting and at the         same time challenging"(Norwegian student).
The RSCCSE's ExperimentsAtSchool &amp; CensusAtSchool projects       collect and provide data from/to school pupils on four continents.
Originally data was manually extracted and processed by pupils.
Research       into developing an active learning interface created the Statistics         Data Analysis Tool.
Pupils can now rapidly process, and visualise       graphically, extensive data sets, allowing them to format, rapidly test       their own hypothesis make.
(Source5) This internationally disseminated       research was adopted and used by over 30,000 UK pupils.
Centre of Effective Learning in Science' research into public engagement       resources (including Kit-in-a-Kase, delivered to over 11,500 local pupils)       was disseminated through regional, national and international       conferences(Source6).
We organised three National Outreach Conferences for       HE (supported by AimHigher, STEMNET, HEA) to share outreach best practice       (150 people attended).
Staff and students from Liverpool adopted examples.
Outcomes led to partnerships with South Korea, producing new teacher       training schemes in creative science teaching, two sponsored summer       science camps in Korea (2008 &amp; 2009, with LG Corporation sponsoring in       2009) and Gyeonggi Institute of Science Education Science Camp at       NTU for 30 Korean pupils aged 13-15(2011).
Research into use of Personal         Response Systems with local children, was disseminated at an       international conference and invited workshops (Swedish teachers and       Norwegian Research Council) in 2009.
The CELS website disseminated outputs       internationally (Google Analytics showed 45,000 visits from 73 countries       to CELS Outreach resources, (Table 1, 2009-10) and over 19,000 users of       the Molecular Geometry learning resource from Europe the Americas, Oceania       and Asia,(Source7).
A Scottish HE adopted our `Mole Calculator' for their       students.
Astronomy Global Citizenship research is delivered annually to       ~350 school pupils and community groups members.
Now embedded within NTU       teacher training (~120 trainee teachers annually) it impacts on pupil       learning in schools across the UK).
Co-presentation of findings with local       pupils at national and international meetings attracted local and national       media attention.
Dissemination at national and international conferences       led to collaboration with Portugal and Germany.
Outputs were incorporated       into Portugal's GALILEO/Commenius funded teacher training       program,(2012)(Source10).
This innovative non-traditional use of ancient       monuments' produced masterclasses for 60 student, CPD activites for 30       teachers annually and innovative work-placements which were `Highly       Commended' (2012 National Green Gown Award for Social Responsibility).
Three accessible sites with public-interpretation panels to explore       skyscape and landscape were installed; one site achieved `Dark-Sky         Discovery Site' status, leading to invited participation in BBC         Stargazing Live, (~2,500 local people attended).
In 2011, 85% of 400       local attendees at two local Peak District events rated highly(4.64/5),       the amount learned about the impact of light pollution; 87% wanted to find       out more about ancient history and 93% wanted to find out more about       astronomy.
This collaborative approach has successfully engaged local       communities with both science and culture in a meaningful       context,(Sources3&amp;9).
