     National/international teacher professional development policy and         practice     Richards', Emerson's and Grayson's research is contextualised by the       Government's 'Inclusion Development Programme' seeking to increase new       teachers' skills in an area identified as a priority (OFSTED 2008).
Richards' research has contributed to national changes in UK initial       teacher education in that specialist SEN placements are now funded in all       universities and available as an integral offer to courses; and to the       more effective development of new teachers' skills to raise the       achievement of pupils with special educational needs.
Dissemination of Richards' work has been through publications,       international/national conference presentations, government national       websites, local authority conferences and university course meetings.
It       has had a significant influence on the national initial teacher training       course curriculum, the induction training for new teachers and national       training for Special Educational Needs Co-ordinators ("Dr Richards' work       has been of a uniformly high quality and has directly informed national       policy and professional practice."
(Phil Snell, Programme Leader Special       Educational Needs and Disability, TDA/Department for Education 2010: see       5.
Source 2).
It has influenced the TDA (now the National College) to make       the `SEN Specialist Placement' an integral offer to initial teacher       education courses.
Her text for new teachers is recommended for many       primary and secondary teacher training courses.
Her research was also       shared with Japan's Education Minister and his department during her       travel award visit to Japan and at to the World Islamic Education Forum.
National FE teacher education     The context of Wallace's and Peart's research is the problem of       disengagement and exclusion among learners in FE and the consequent issues       relating to behaviour and motivation that are often rooted in experiences       of social and/or cultural exclusion.
The research carried out by Peart into Black men and boys' experiences of       FE has been widely reported (see section 5), won a national British       Education Research Assocation award in 2012, and has led to the setting up       of Black on Track programmes in the East Midlands aimed at raising       levels of inclusion and engagement for Black males.
Peart's research has       been disseminated through journal articles and her recent book (see       section 3).
Her award-winning research was given local and national press       coverage and the resulting Black on Track project has been widely reported       as well as having an internet presence.
The findings from Wallace's research reach a wide readership of teachers       and trainee-teachers in texts which are essential or recommended reading       on most teacher training programmes for the FE sector, thus maximising the       impact on practice and learner engagement.
These texts, along with her       academic papers, have informed the national debate about the relative       influences of policy and practice in shaping learner behaviour and       motivation in FE.
Wallace's work has been disseminated through publication       in international journals, presentations at international conferences,       keynote addresses at a range of events for education practitioners and key       texts for trainee and experienced teachers in the sector.
School practice     The research by Emerson and Grayson has contributed to the Facilitated         Communication controversy by providing evidence that the technique       can be effective; and has informed the wider debate about measurement and       assessment of people with severe intellectual impairment.
Emerson's work       in relation to individuals' competence has led to changes within special       schools locally and further afield.
For example, as a direct result of       their research on autism, Facilitated Communication has been       introduced in two special schools in Nottingham.
Practice in teaching       children with autism who have no or limited communication skills was       changed at Rosehill School as a result of the project which was a       collaboration between NTU and Nottingham City Children's Services .Videos       from the project provided a clear picture of how each of the children had       changed and progressed as a result of the new teaching methods.
The videos       were used in staff training and student's Annual Reviews.
Community impact     The impact of this research collectively has been twofold.
It has influenced the practice trainee teachers, experienced teachers         and teacher training tutors for the school and FE sectors, increasing         knowledge, understanding and skill in meeting diverse learning needs and         supporting achievement of those who are socially disadvantaged or         excluded, thereby addressing an area of significant policy concern.
It has influenced policy relating to the professional development of         SEN teachers, in particular the development of national training for SEN         Co-ordinators.
