     The extent of community impact of the research is with primary and       secondary teachers, classroom assistants, pre-service teachers and       students, many of whom are now using the resources developed from these       research projects.
Statements by teachers evidence changes in practice       which impact on students and increased knowledge, understanding and skill       in meeting the needs of students with low literacy levels, and those       identified as disengaged; this is evidenced through teacher's class       records.
This addresses a significant area of concern raised at Government       level where a) students with special educational needs are identified as       underachieving in schools, and b) newly qualified teachers report that       they are unprepared to meet the diverse needs of students with special       educational needs in their classrooms`.
For example of 70 teachers       involved in the project led by Dr Hughes, 60% indicated they are using the       resources and methods acquired during the training in their teaching; this       is evidenced by evaluations completed by participants.
While students       involved in Dr Boulton's research found the use of technology engaging       through working collaboratively and co-constructing new knowledge with 5       secondary schools who have higher than average levels of students with       English as a second language and free school meals.
Many students reported       that the technologies made learning fun and enjoyable.
Teachers reported       increased levels of literacy for most students, increased confidence in       learning by all students and increased levels of engagement for all       students who had been identified as disengaged learners by their school.
Significant engagement was observed by students who had English as a       second language.
One school reported significant benefits for a physically       disabled student.
Hughes' 2009 project impacted on approximately 70 primary school teachers       and teaching assistants across the region taking part in training       programmes using Learn and Teach Primary Spanish 1.
The nature of this       impact has been on teachers' increased knowledge, understanding and skill       in meeting the language needs of primary school students and confirmed by       teachers, see Section 5.
Two of the primary schools involved in the       project, Seagrave and Cantrell Primary, are located in deprived parts of       the city and have significantly above-average numbers of students entitled       to free meals and/or with learning difficulties.
The project was the       catalyst for the development of a new primary language upskilling strategy       in Nottingham modelled on the train-the-trainer principle in 2009/10.
Developing collaborations with Cool Creatives, Education for the Children       (EFTC), and schools is contributing to one of the most important aspects       of the university's external agenda, providing support for the community       within which it is embedded and thus providing further evidence of wider       impact within the community; see Section 5.
Dissemination has been through international and national conference       presentations by both Dr Hughes and Dr Boulton for example:     HUGHES, N., 2009.
Blended learning: an effective, efficient and popular       approach to language learning in HE.
In: Fourth International Blended       Learning Conference, University of Hertfordshire, 2009. pp.
53-63.
BOULTON, H., 2012.
Can technologies raise literacy levels?
In:       Association of Information Technology in Teacher Education Annual       International Conference, Oxford University, Oxford, 5-7 July 2012.
As a result Hughes has been invited to speak at international, national       and local conferences and invitation to visit University of Newcastle in       New South Wales, Australia (2009 and 2010).
Resources from the projects are located on national websites and made       available via CDROMs such as `Learn and Teach Primary Spanish 1', and via       http://www.itte.org.uk/ &gt;       Resources&gt; Resources for Use in Schools for CPD,       https://www.routesintolanguages.ac.uk/eastmidlands/resources       &#8212; click link under `Ambassadors Learn Languages', http://partners.bte.sws.ntu.ac.uk/moodle/       and http://www.itte.org.uk/node/837,       thus reaching a wide readership and audiences both nationally and       internationally.
