     Polar polymers such as polyesters, polyamides, polycarbonates, acrylates       and methacrylates are traditionally used in commodity applications such as       in textiles and engineering.
The Warwick research was recognized by       Haddleton, Warwick Ventures Ltd and investors as having potential to       create new high-technology applications in the area of "effect polymers"       i.e.
polymers as fine rather than bulk chemicals.
Therefore the spin-out       company Warwick Effect Polymers Limited (WEP) was formed in 2001 with the       initial purpose of exploiting the new Warwick living radical       polymerization technology with end users.
With a DTI SMART award, &#163;5k from       1st prize at a Cambridge Enterprise Launch Pad event and       investment from a US business angel [10] the company started trading in       2002.
In 2013 WEP is still based in its own laboratories on the University       of Warwick Science Park employing 10-15 people on average [11].
The       company has also funded over 20 students and research fellows.
The relevant Warwick/Haddleton IP was assigned to WEP, and a pipeline       agreement (2002-12) facilitated collaborative work with several companies       including Unilever, Courtaulds, ICI, BP, Geltex (Genzyme), Biocompatibles,       Syngenta, Elf AtoChem in exploiting the underpinning research.
With       Unilever, for example, work on ABA triblocks led to patents relating to       personal care products which were subject to large scale customer trials       in the US and UK (2002-2006) [12] and this collaboration is ongoing (see       below).
A director of a VC fund management company and private investor in       WEP (2003-2012) notes that the company "had a strong track record of       undertaking paid research for large corporations" [13].
During a       collaborative project the company caught the attention of a Vice President       of a multinational biotechnology company because of its "potential for       impact in far-ranging areas" and "belief in the broad potential" of WEP       technology [10] and this individual became a director and private investor       in WEP.
In 2005 the company won the Lord Stafford award for best       University spin out in the West Midlands and Haddleton was awarded the RSC       Chemistry World Entrepreneur of the year.
In 2013 the founder of another       VC Fund Management company described WEP as "an exemplar of the high       quality research innovations with disruptive global potential."
[11]     During the REF2014 period, the focus of the company was the development       of the Warwick technology in polymers for therapeutics and nanomedicine       [13]; markets that could stand the increased costs of production of       precision polymers from living radical polymerization.
The pegylation and       glycopolymer work described in section 2 became a strategic activity with       the aim of improving aspects of protein, peptide and subsequently siRNA       (small interfering RNA) therapeutics- classes of biological drug.
Building       on the collaboratively generated intellectual property, specific protein       and peptide therapeutics identified by biotech partners were optimised       with the new conjugation and polymerisation technology.
WEP's comb       polymers (PolyPEGTM) have the advantage of "lower viscosity       compared to conventional PEG polymer [that] is utilised to extend the in         vivo half-life of protein therapeutics by reducing the clearance       rate."
This advantage "has been demonstrated [in projects throughout the       REF2014 period] by WEP's partners within the pharmaceutical industry" [14]       and was one of the key drivers for WEP's eventual acquisition (see below).
To support its R&amp;D programme, WEP received &#163;3.77M since 2001 in       venture capital funding (angel investors plus national, international and       regional venture capital trusts) [15,16] and the company now holds three       patent families for targeting polymers; "a very important segment of       intellectual property" [10].
As a measure of activity, total expenditure       over the REF2014 period was &#163;3.0M spread evenly over that period [15].
Since 2008, WEP has supplemented its capital investment through a       portfolio of more than 10 multi-contract projects with major companies.
For example, with Unilever, a new technology in protein conjugation of       polymers has been developed to protect human hair against damaging       treatments [17].
New synthetic glycopolymer technologies, transferred to       WEP under the pipeline agreement and developed as GlycoPolTM       and ZenoPolTM (trademarked 2009 and 2011 respectively) are       being tested by a global pharmaceuticals leader for gene delivery [14,       18].
In 2012 WEP was acquired by PolyTherics Ltd in a substantial       (undisclosed) share-for-share deal and is now a wholly owned subsidiary       still based at the Warwick Science Park.
Polytherics explains that their       interest was driven by WEPs patent portfolio and the existence of "a       number of programmes with one of the top 5 pharmaceutical companies"       [14,19].
The deal "brought together complementary technologies...to extend       the pharmacokinetics of biological therapeutics through polymer       conjugation" [14].
An industry expert notes, "the continuing evolution of       PolyPEG by large pharma companies, and the increased interest in       GlycoPol...by some of the same players, continues to validate the       strategy" [10].
Products utilising PolyTherics and WEP technologies are       "expected to enter clinical development in 2014 and the company will       receive milestone payments and royalties from the successful development       and commercialisation of these products" [14].
The acquisition has thereby       allowed WEP to attain the security required for its long term partner       projects in drug delivery and development.
The specialist polymer team and       laboratory continues with some PolyTherics activities relocating from       London to WEP's premises.
For the Polytherics group, WEP provides the       effect polymers technology and expertise that it was established to       create.
In July 2013, following PolyTherics acquisition of WEP and Antitope Ltd,       &#163;13.5M further investment was raised from some of WEP's funders (Mercia       Fund Management and Advantage Enterprise &amp; Innovation Fund) and       Invesco Perpetual.
The group now employs more than 80 staff.
Revenues of       the combined Polytherics businesses exceeded &#163;8.5M last financial year       with WEP "making an increasing contribution to revenues as more       significant licence payments are received and as the technology becomes       established.
"[14]     The underpinning research at Warwick by Haddleton and his research team       thus led to the establishment of a spin-out company that during the       REF2014 period has created a large number of jobs, attracted substantial       investment, implemented strategic industry-collaborative projects and       developed valuable intellectual property.
Acquisition of WEP and its IP       portfolio by Polytherics Ltd was accompanied by substantial new investment       and forms a key part of the group's nanomedicine strategy.
