     Our work in the area of minorities' welfare needs and access to services       comprised a broad range of projects, collaborating with stakeholders       operating at different levels and in different sectors and made possible       by the diversity of funding models utilised.
Some of our studies have been       directly commissioned by public bodies, third sector organisations and       other stakeholders, others were funded by research councils and through       competitive tenders (e.g.
from the EU Fundamental Rights Agency).
We made       considerable use of impact-focused and innovative funding models, such as       the ESRC `follow-on' programme and the `voucher scheme' within the       ESRC-funded Social Enterprise Research Capacity Building Cluster       (2008-2013).
The latter involved partnerships with Third Sector       organisations which were given a `virtual' amount of money to spend with       the University in order to carry out capacity building or organisational       development activities (including external evaluations of services, user       needs (5.1)).
This model has proved so successful that we have funded       additional vouchers via the Higher Education Innovation Fund.
Our work with BME organisations and community service providers has       enabled them to better identify the needs of their clients, set priorities       for future service provision, and develop sustainability strategies,       including funding, service commissioning, partnerships and networking.
In       several cases, our interventions enabled them to secure additional funding       or to establish better and more direct links with local authorities and       other decision makers.
For example, our original work with the Haringey       Chinese Centre on the needs of older people created the opportunity to       establish stronger links with the local authority which subsequently led       to commissioning of services, including luncheon clubs and advice       services, and their receipt of funding from Haringey Voluntary Sector       Investment Fund 2012-2015.
(5.2)     The dissemination of projects has been used as an opportunity to organise       broader thematic Knowledge Exchange events.
An ESRC Third Sector Research       Centre funded event on the sustainability of BME organisations (2010) saw       the participation of over 60 academics, local authorities, grant making       bodies and community organisations and led to various partnership       activities both between organisations and with the SPRC.
Participants from       a number of organisations subsequently became regular informants for our       research projects, speakers at events and contributors to consultation       processes.
The event paved the way for a larger, 2-day conference on 'The       Equality Impact of Big Society', with over 100 community sector       participants and academics.
The conference included a number of thematic       workshops for practitioners on the effects of the spending review and       policy changes on education, health, housing services and on specific       provision for migrants, women, older and disabled people.
These were       delivered in partnership with third sector organisations such as Age UK       and Evelyn Oldfield unit and the London boroughs of Barnet and Haringey.
Later on, a Knowledge Exchange event on 'Welfare Needs of BME communities'       (2013), discussing the effects of welfare restructuring and the future       challenges for the community sector, attracted over 70 participants       (public and third sector) from across the country, confirmed how the work       of the SPRC over the last few years has contributed to fostering community       networks and partnership initiatives and to bringing a change of mentality       among community organisations about the importance of getting involved in       and using research.
Recent partnership initiatives with Day-Mer (5.1), Paiwand (5.3) and BME       Advice Network (5.4) are regarded as models of community-based research       and have led to several enquiries and plans for long-term collaboration       with other groups, such as Barnet Refugee Services, the Centre for       Armenian Information and Advice, the British-Iranian Community Development       Organisation and Elbistan community centre.
The increasing number and       variety of organisations, which have approached the SPRC over the last few       years, demonstrate the perceived effectiveness and tangible impact of our       work model in enabling local communities to gather evidence to inform       interventions which promote broader and more equal access to public       services.
For example, since 2012 we have been working closely with the       Enfield Citizens Advice Bureau to analyse their client database and &#8212;       through additional research &#8212; identify emerging local needs, particularly       among new migrant communities, and producing recommendations in terms of       service delivery and development strategies.
This work has enabled the CAB       to indentify and `reach out' to target groups (5.5) The work with Enfield       CAB also involved both commissioned research and a programme of student       placements.
It is however our work on migrant and BME children in schools that offers       one of the strongest examples of a thematic strand of activity whereby       impact has been delivered on several levels and with a number of       stakeholder groups, impacting upon local practice and fostering strategic       thinking.
An initial study on Polish children was commissioned by the       organisation Multiverse to provide insights to be shared with educational       professionals within their network.
Subsequently, an ESRC Follow On       project, `Polish Pupils in London Schools', provided training as well as       networking opportunities to teachers across several London boroughs, for       example, Barnet, Ealing and Tower Hamlets (5.6).
Our guide for Polish Parents (in Polish and English) was acknowledged by       the Polish newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza (http://tinyurl.com/q2h43dn],       positively reviewed and provided as a resource to be downloaded by a       number of websites of Polish communities in the UK, such as the Polish       Associations in Kent (http://polskakent.org)       and Eastbourne (www.polskieeastbourne.org.uk), the Polish Newsletter for       the East Midlands (http://tinyurl.com/pk6uexp) and http://www.london.net,       one of the most widely used online portals for Poles in the UK.
Working in       partnership with Action for Social Integration (AFSI), we adapted this       into a broader guide for BME parents on the UK education system, targeting       recently arrived migrant families.
This was distributed and advertised       among community organisations and practitioners as a valuable and       practical tool (5.7)     We have also aimed to maximise impact by working in close collaboration       with partner organisations, including Tower Hamlets Education Services,       the Federation of Poles in Great Britain and Hackney Learning Trust,       through exchanging data, gathering practitioners' insights and delivering       presentations at public and internal meetings.
In particular, our       evaluation of BME supplementary education services received the attention       and praise of Hackney Learning Trust &#8212; which had sustained the development       of such services using dedicated funding from the local authority &#8212; since       it represented the first local attempt to conduct external evaluations       involving organisations, parents as well as mainstream schools.
In many cases, work in the area of education later led to broader       interventions with BME service providers.
For example, an initial voucher       for a small piece of research with Day-Mer, with over 2,000 clients, was       used to evaluate their education services (including parental engagement,       in- school tutelage and supplementary classes) but also to raise awareness       on the role of community providers in education.
The research report was       used by Day-Mer to successfully apply for additional funding from the Big       Lottery, in partnership with other BME organisations providing education       services [http://daymer.org/content/education-services]       (5.1).
Based on this success, Day-Mer subsequently used a Big Lottery       `Transition Fund' grant to commission research by Middlesex staff on the       `Welfare and advice needs of Turkish and Kurdish communities' in order to       inform service planning in this area over the next few years (http://tinyurl.com/p9x9qmt/)       (5.1).
Findings from the study were requested by strategic forums and other       decision makers from Enfield and other London boroughs.
A similar       development also occurred with Paiwand, an Afghan organisation with about       2,000 users per year and operating in Northwest London.
After a first       evaluation of their supplementary school services by the Middlesex team,       Paiwand used funding from Hammersmith Council to commission a study on the       welfare needs of the Afghan community, which brought in a number of other       London-based Afghan organisations.
The initiative, strongly supported by       the local authority to inform more effective community interventions, has       equipped the beneficiary organisations with better evidence, sounder       sustainability plans and stronger capacity (through targeted training),       which have been immediately implemented in additional service provision,       such as mentoring (http://www.paiwand.com/mentoring)       and informing successful funding applications, such as with the Big       Lottery (http://tinyurl.com/nzgwkrg)       (5.3).
