     During the EPSRC's 2009 Chemistry International Review, a senior officer       of the Index Ventures- backed company Funxional Therapeutics Ltd with a       substantial track record in the `biotech' industry described the company's       interaction with Fox at Warwick as "the life-blood of FXT" [5].
In the       period 2006-13 the Fox group at Warwick has been the de facto       chemistry group for FXT and was involved in all aspects of medicinal       chemistry and biological investigation; exploratory synthesis,       lead-optimisation, compound selection and preclinical chemical development       [6].
The identification of FX125L as the lead candidate, underpinned by       the continuing confidence borne of the medicinal and biological mechanism       research at Warwick [1-4] led to FXT's decision to push FX125L into       clinical trials [5,7] and, "made the key chemistry contribution to the       success of this programme" [6].
In 2008 Fox acted on behalf of FXT as lead chemistry consultant for the       synthesis of multiple kilograms of FX125L.
The synthetic route developed       at Warwick (see Section 2) was transferred to a contract research       organisation employed by FXT.
Fox subsequently provided the scientific       direction and substantial new experimental input, and, "convincingly       solved several problems that emerged during scale-up" [6] including       unwanted racemisation and the suspected crystallisation of FX125L as       different polymorphs.
As part of the consultancy, analytical standards       were also developed at Warwick to test the long-term chemical and       stereochemical stability of FX125L [5].
A second Funxional Therapeutics       senior officer states that, "the underpinning work commissioned by FXT at       Warwick was used in the initiation of clinical trials," and following the       FDA approved Investigational New Drug (IND) application of FX125L for the       treatment of asthma (January 2009) and access to large quantities of pure       FX125L from the Warwick route, Phase 1 trials were started [8].
Studies in       an animal model of allergic asthma quickly showed that FX125L exhibits a       superior efficacy profile to dexamethasone or montelucast [9].
As part of Phase 1 trials, 66 healthy participants in the USA received a       wide range of doses (0.03 mg to 3 g of FX125L), and the study was       completed in July 2009.
FX125L was safe and well tolerated at all dose       levels.
No serious adverse events or patient withdrawal were observed       [10].
The pharmacokinetic profile of FX125L was linear over the wide range       of doses studied, which led to the development of a convenient once-daily       oral dosing regimen.
"The results in humans are consistent with the       preclinical data, suggesting that FX125L has a very wide safety margin,       and confirmed the excellent drug-like profile of FX125L" [8].
In January 2010 a second Phase 1 study in which US patients received       multiple ascending doses was completed and the results were "entirely       consistent with those of the single dose study and confirmed the excellent       drug-like profile of FX125L" [11].
Phase 2 clinical trials studying the effects of FX125L on asthma, COPD,       rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis were announced [11] and in May 2010,       FXT reported that it had raised &#8364;10M in a private Series B financing round       to fund these initial Phase 2 clinical studies in inflammatory disease       [12].
FXT have stated that as a result of the underpinning Warwick research       "FX125L has optimal CMC (chemistry, manufacturing and controls)       characteristics and is obtained by a straightforward 3-step chemical       synthesis with an extremely low cost of goods" [5,7].
In addition FX125L       was described as an "ideal pharmaceutical" by potential large       pharmaceutical firm investors [5].
The collaboration with       Warwick was therefore vital for the success of Phase 1 clinical trials and       the continuing funding and progress of Phase 2 trials [5,6].
In July 2012 Boehringer Ingelheim and Funxional Therapeutics announced       acquisition by the former of FX125L and the somatotaxin portfolio to treat       inflammation.
This sale generated an undisclosed multi-million pound       return for FXT and its investors [13].
"The confidence that Funxional was       thereby able to create in the synthetic route and analytical standards,       alongside the novel and highly favourable performance of the drug,       underpinned BI's decision to acquire FX125L and the somatotaxin portfolio"       [6].
The Warwick research thus provided the synthetic and medicinal chemistry       that allowed phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in humans and underpinned       investor confidence.
This led to substantial economic impact in the       pharmaceutical industry and will lead to important health impacts in a       disease area that affects the majority of families.
The success of FX125L       and the identification of the SSTR2 as its molecular target has led to       Index Ventures employment of Fox as their lead medicinal chemist in their       new biotech companies E3Bio Ltd and Purple Pharmaceuticals Ltd [5].
