     Research on the life and work of Sir Basil Spence has enhanced the       understanding of modern       British architecture, and benefited the heritage and conservation sectors.
The team's research       findings informed the decisions of Historic Scotland and English Heritage       to propose statutory       protection for Spence's buildings.
The RCAHMS catalogue of the Spence       Archive is more       historically informed through knowledge sharing.
Increased appreciation       for Basil Spence, his       buildings and twentieth-century architecture among contemporary users of       his buildings and the       public has been generated through a high-profile touring exhibition and a       programme of public       engagement activities including popular and online publications,       workshops, talks, architectural       tours, and non-academic conferences.
Preserving Britain's built heritage:     The research team has assisted bodies which document and conserve       Britain's built heritage,       resulting in the preservation of Spence's buildings.
Fenton, Walker and       Thomas provided key       information to English Heritage which strengthened its plan to install a       blue plaque at his former       office and home at 1 Canonbury Place (23 March 2011).
Fenton was retained       as a consultant by       Historic Scotland 2008-9, producing a report on all of Spence's unlisted       buildings in Scotland.
This       report led directly to 10 new listings connected to Spence and his       practice.
Walford provided expert       advice to a member of the Assessment team for Heritage Protection at       English Heritage about       Spence's Sydenham School which supported its recommendation for a grade II       listing (declined by       DCMS in 2010.)
As a member of the CFCE's Fabric Advisory Committee for       Coventry Cathedral       (since 1998) Campbell `supplied valuable historical information about       Spence's design and about       the f0bccrypt chapels to the Fabric Advisory Committee'.
She also advised       on ways of adapting the       Cathedral to improve disabled access while preserving its architectural       integrity.
She advised       Coventry's Diocesan Advisory Committee about proposed alterations to       Spence's church of St       Oswald, and has nominated this church for listing.
She is now working with       the Diocesan Advisory       Committee's Church Buildings Officer to nominate other Spence-designed       churches for listing.
Her       research on the Cathedral has been used by the World Monuments Fund in       their campaign to       repair the ruins of the medieval cathedral, and re-display the surviving       stained glass.
According to       its Chief Executive, `Campbell's research and publications on Coventry       Cathedral have been of       enormous use to the campaign.
They have helped to inform our understanding       of the symbolic       importance of the ruins... and enhanced our understanding of the subtle       relationship which Basil       Spence devised between old and new cathedrals.'
Other contributions by the research team to the work of heritage       organisations include talks about       key Spence buildings to RCAHMS cataloguers.
The team also provided       information about Spence       and his colleagues to the Dictionary of Scottish Architects from       2004-2012.
Historic Scotland's       booklet Basil Spence (2012) was significantly revised in its       online form following input from       Campbell and Thomas.
Public Impact: Exhibitions:     The research provided the intellectual underpinning for the acclaimed       centenary exhibition, Back to         the Future: Sir Basil Spence 1907-76, the first major exhibition of       Spence's life and work, co-       curated by the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art and Thomas (rated 5       stars, The Guardian).
The research team advised on themes, helped choose the material for the       exhibition, and wrote       the exhibition panels and labels.
The exhibition book, Basil Spence         Architect, edited by Long and       Thomas, included one essay each by Thomas and Fenton and two essays each       by Campbell and       Glendinning.
3,122 copies were sold.
The exhibition was shown at Edinburgh       (Dean Gallery, Oct.       2007-Feb. 2008; 29,000 visitors), London (RIBA, Mar-Apr.
2008; not       recorded) and Coventry (the       Herbert, May - Aug. 2008; 9,000 visitors).
A smaller exhibition, Basil's         Bairns, was held at the       Royal Scottish Academy in January 2008 (10,750 visitors).
Developed with       Fenton, it examined       how Spence's legacy was disseminated throughout the Scottish architectural       profession by his       Edinburgh partners and assistants.
Public Impact: Workshops, conferences and public talks:     The public impact of the research was extended through interactive events       organised by RCAHMS       as part of their Spence Archive project.
Campbell, Glendinning, Walford       and Walker provided       expert knowledge at three workshops which involved the current users of       Spence's buildings and       used archival material to enhance participants' understanding of the       physical environment.
Soldiers       at Hyde Park Barracks, London (workshop 1), and S2-S6 students at Thurso       High School,       Duncanrig Secondary School and Kilsyth Academy (workshop 2) created films       reflecting their       experiences of their surroundings and understanding of Spence's       architectural vision.
Workshop 3       at Coventry Cathedral for the congregation and those of Spence's three       Coventry churches       involved creating a Perspex sculpture inspired by Spence's use of light.
Conferences in 2008 (Edinburgh, Coventry and Rome) brought the research       to the public, the       architectural profession and heritage bodies.
Talks by the research team,       staff from English       Heritage and Spence's office illuminated working life in Spence's       practices and the social, cultural       and architectural significance of his buildings in the UK and abroad.
Campbell advised on Coventry       Cathedral's exhibition `Journey into the Light: the art treasure of       Coventry Cathedral' (Sep-Oct       2012, co-curated by Walford) and on the Sir Basil Spence exhibition at       Sussex University to mark       their 50th anniversary in 2012.
She delivered public lectures       at Coventry Cathedral (17 Oct. 2012),       Sussex (23 May 2012; 200 people), the Ecclesiological Society, London, (17       Dec. 2012), V&amp;A       Museum, London, (25 Apr.
2012), the Twentieth Century Society, London, (7       Mar.
2013; 50       people), and to members of the Art Fund and the Friends of the Royal       Academy (35 people) on       their visits to Coventry (15 Oct. 2012 and 21 Mar.
2013).
