     By exploring how ethnic minorities have performed, understood and       re-interpreted Shakespeare,       the research has contributed to a greater understanding of the dramatic       social, cultural and       demographic changes in twentieth-century Britain.
Public beneficiaries       include theatre goers,       theatre professionals &#8212; actors, directors and producers &#8212; especially those       from the British Black       and Asian communities, activists and community groups.
Having collaborated       at every stage with       leading UK multi-ethnic cultural organisations and individuals, the       research has preserved and re-presented       the multicultural nature of Britain's theatre history contributing to       public discourse about       contemporary Britain, multiculturalism and the arts.
It has provided       stimulus to tourism through       exhibitions and festival activities, and has resulted in the creation of       new forms of artistic       expression.
1.
The Robeson Project 	A Slave's Son at Stratford     To connect theatregoers with the life and legacy of Paul Robeson, Howard       created two panel       exhibitions.
The first A Slave's Son at Stratford, toured       alongside the RSC's 2009 production of       Othello which played in Coventry (30 Jan - 7 Feb; 5,015 audiences);       Hackney Borough, London       (10-14 Feb; 5,662 audience); Newcastle-upon-Tyne (17-21 Feb; 3,069       audience); Oxford (24-28       Feb) and Liverpool (3-7 Mar).
During the rehearsals of Othello,       Howard presented the research,       including sound tapes of Robeson's 1944 and 1959 performances to the       director and cast.
The       effect on the production &#8212; in which Ghanaian actor, Patrice Naiambana,       related his performance to       the African diaspora and to Robeson as a crucial model for the black       artist &#8212; is recorded in John       Russell Brown, The Routledge Companion to Actors' Shakespeare       (London: Routledge, 2011), p.       178.
To accompany the exhibition, Howard gave multi-media presentations       (including sound tapes       never heard publicly before) in these theatres as well as at Bristol Old       Vic (5 Jun 2009) and       Shakespeare's Globe in London (approx.
audience 110).
In the cities where,       in 1949, Robeson       gave concerts under police surveillance, Howard discussed the local police       reports and the local       authorities' attempts to control or prevent the event.
Many members of       Howard's audience had       attended Robeson's performances in 1959 (and even 1949) and their       recollections were recorded       and subsequently added to the project's digital archive, available on the       project website.
A Slave's Son at Stratford (augmented with items related to       Robeson's three Othellos and a sound       installation) was invited to become a temporary exhibition at       Shakespeare's Globe Exhibition for       two months (4 January- 28 February 2010).
The Globe Exhibition (rated one       of the top 10 London       visitor attractions: London Pass Scheme) receives 300,000 visitors       annually; the Robeson exhibit       was seen by an estimated 40,000 people.
Howard presented the exhibition to       the Shakespeare       Theatres of America Association (January 2010), a forum for artistic,       managerial and educational       leadership involving over 100 US and Canadian theatres, and addressed the       practitioners'       Inclusion Committee.
As a result, he was invited to deliver the keynote       paper to the Inaugural       Meeting of the Shakespeare Theatre Association (the SAA re-launched as an       international       organisation) in Florida (March 2012), and invited to curate the film       programme for the first Harlem       Shakespeare Festival which takes place Aug-Dec 2013.
Let Robeson Sing     The second exhibition, Let Robeson Sing, used documents from       Warwick's Modern Records       Centre, the RSC, the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, and private lenders.
It       focused on the       international campaign led by the British Trades Union (1950-1958) to       restore Robeson's       confiscated passport and allow him to act at Stratford.
Objects brought       together included petitions,       materials related to his transatlantic concert (1957) conducted via       telephone to St Pancras Town       Hall, and Robeson's Stratford Othello costume.
It was opened on 3 February       2009 by Baroness       Lola Young (Former Chair of the Arts Council's Cultural Diversity Panel       and Founder of the arts       consultancy Cultural Brokers), and was on display until May being seen by       the visitors to the       search room (approx.
100).
The material was digitised and presented as an       online exhibition,       extending the reach of the research to broader audiences (approx.
5,000       hits).
To accompany the exhibitions and to maximise access to the research       findings, Howard created a       series of podcasts: `The Robeson Exhibition': introduced by Howard; `I       Have Done the State Some       Service: Robeson and the FBI': a presentation by Howard and a discussion       with members of the       1959 Othello company including audience contributions; `Speak of       Me as I am: Inside Othello': a       round-table discussion on the Robeson legacy and on the significance of Othello       for Black British       actors and directors, with Joseph Marcell and Baroness Lola Young; `Sam       Wanamaker': a       discussion of surveillance documents on the actor; `Waiting for Robeson':       A dramatised reading       from the diaries of Chris Penny, a Stratford schoolgirl whose richly       detailed diaries about the 1959       production and Robeson's popularity were uncovered during the research.
The podcasts were       made publicly available on the project website and the university's iTunes       channel.
By July 2013,       the podcasts had a total of 80,755 downloads.
I have done the state some service     Howard developed a verbatim drama-documentary I have Done the State         Some Service using       materials from the FBI and MI5 files on Paul and Eslanda Robeson, together       with extracts from       their own speeches and writings, and from HUAC (House Un-American       Activities Committee)       hearing transcripts.
In July 2010 actors from the Black British community       presented this in a       rehearsed reading at the Victoria and Albert Museum as part of the Black       Heritage outreach project       (capacity audience: 57% Black or Ethnic Minority).
As a result, the group       were invited to revive the       event for the Camden Black History Month (November 2010) and at the       Warwick Arts Centre (May       2011; December 2012).
The performers unanimously expressed their       enthusiasm for the project       and their wish to develop it further: `I wanted to thank and congratulate       you on a really compelling       piece of drama and a very inspirational event.'
(Nick Bailey); `It was an       honour to work on this       project.'
(Sarah Paul).
Tom Cornford, who directed the production,       commented that: `All of the       actors who we worked with were visibly moved by the opportunity to       discover and then read and       hear in public Robeson's appeals for a time when people of colour would       stand centre stage.
They       were also brought to a new awareness of their position within the theatre,       film and television       industry today, informed by the history which the play revealed.
...
I can       report their repeated       expression of the significance of this perspective for their work and       their careers'.
The V&amp;A Programme Manager (Theatre and Performance) described I         Have Done the State Some         Service as `moving, intellectually stimulating and important for       V&amp;A audiences'; `a dynamic learning       and interpretation tool, engaging the audience on an emotional level...       [and], though emotive, the       depth of the research ensured that the historical facts were not lost,       inspiring the audience into a       passionate debate about Paul Robeson's social struggles, but also, the       role of Black performers in       Shakespeare since Robeson and in contemporary theatre'.
Further, `The       Robeson play brought       together a wide range of audiences: students, seasoned theatregoers, those       interested in black       and working class histories and those to whom its political content was       previously unknown.
Question and answer sessions offered an opportunity that I have rarely, if       ever, witnessed before       to explore the history and politics of theatre-making and theatre-going       between those on-stage and       off, and to reflect on the ways in which momentous change was captured by       the theatre'.
The Robeson Files     As a result of the exhibitions and theatre piece, and the associated       press coverage, Howard was       invited to be the academic consultant and lead participant for the BBC       Radio 2 documentary The         Robeson Files (6.7.
2011; 350,000+ listeners, BBC figures),       delivering the research to wider       audiences.
It was featured on Pick of the Week (BBC Radio 4       10.7.2011) and in The Mail on         Sunday's Programme of the Week (3.7.2011); it was called       `fascinating' (The Stage, 5.7.2011) and       `riveting' (One Stop Digital).
Hilary Robinson, Producer of The         Robeson Files, has said that:       `[Howard's] authority and passion for the subject adds considerable depth       and gives us an angle       which has never been aired quite so fully'.
2.
Multicultural Shakespeare in Britain     Howard's current project extends the research from a case study on       Robeson to a comprehensive       history of British Black and Asian artists' contribution to       twentieth-century Shakespearean theatre       in Britain.
The project launched with the exhibition To Tell My Story       at the Warwick Arts Centre,       Coventry (4 Dec 2012 - 24 Jan 2013) celebrating the multicultural       achievements in       Shakespearean performance in Britain.
The exhibition was invited to become       a Special Temporary       Exhibition at the Globe Theatre, London (19 April - 23 June 2013; 78,876       visitors), and by Bristol       Heritage to the Bristol Shakespeare Festival (5-21 July).
The project's       work at Bristol also included       two Shakespeare schools workshops (Othello and A Midsummer         Night's Dream) and a panel       discussion led by Howard, featured in the Bristol Evening Post       (9.7.2013).
Material for the       exhibition was contributed by major theatre companies including the RSC,       Leicester Curve,       Tricycle, Kilburn, Talawa and Tara Arts.
The significance of the research       impact is demonstrated       by additional invitations to collaborate.
To Tell my Story has       been invited to appear in libraries and       schools in Bristol, Slough, and Lambeth; in theatres throughout the       country (The Broadway,       Barking, and The Curve, Leicester); and internationally, accompanying The       Globe's King Lear to St       Lucia (Aug 2013) to celebrate the Caribbean contribution to British       culture, invited by J.D.
Douglas       productions.
The significance of the impact is further indicated by social and       mainstream media interest.
The       project film, British Black and Asian Shakespeare, traces the       development of British Black and       Asian actors on the Shakespearean stage from the 1930s to present day,       inspired by Robeson's       sensational success playing Othello in London in 1930.
It is available on       the AHRC's website (441       views) and on YouTube (491 views) The project's live twitter event       attracted 24 participants,       generating 188 tweets and a potential reach of 15,000 followers.
The       project has also been       featured on BBC West Midlands' Chatback programme for the region's       African and Asian       communities (21.07.13; avg 122,000 listeners, RAJAR figures).
