     Re-interpreting the role of the translator and of literary translation as       a creative process that bridges cultures and facilitates intercultural       communication has underpinned the work of Warwick's literary translation       scholars.
They have raised the profile among the English reading public of       the literature of other cultures, particularly those not historically       translated into English: Turkish and Polish.
The increased exposure in the       English language market of these literatures has resulted in greater       critical recognition of the authors and economic benefits for independent       publishing houses specialising in translation.
Freely and Bassnett have       also helped to improve the quality of training and support for       professional literary translators by devising and running new initiatives       and by leading professional associations.
Introducing new authors to the English reading public       Freely's translations have helped to raise the profile of Pamuk's writing       in the English speaking world.
She has translated five of Pamuk's novels       into English: Snow (2004), Istanbul: Memories of a City       (2005), The Black Book (new ed., 2006), Other Colours       (2007), and The Museum of Innocence (2010).
The reach of her       translations is truly global since English language works lead the       international literary market, and translations into other languages are       made from the English edition (more than sixty for Museum of Innocence).
The significance of her translations is further demonstrated by       international critical recognition.
In 2010 she received the Best       Translated Book Award for her translation of The Museum of Innocence,       which was also shortlisted for The Independent Foreign Fiction       Prize in 2011.
Critics, such as The Independent's Boyd Tonkin,       have confirmed that her `brilliant translations did so much to propel       Orhan Pamuk to the Nobel Prize' (13.11.2009).
Hulse's translations have       introduced culturally significant German language authors, such as       Elfriede Jelinek, (Nobel Laureate, 2004) and Herta M&#252;ller, (Nobel       Laureate, 2009).
Hulse was W.G.
Sebald's first English translator, and is       publicly recognised as having introduced the author to the English reading       public with The Emigrants (1996).
Sebald's legacy continues to       influence a generation of English language writers (The Guardian,       13.05.2013; `Today, the influence of his work crops up all over the       place'), a process in which Hulse's translations played a central role, as       acknowledged by the Independent on Sunday (21.09.2008), `Of course       the fidelity of one to the other was down to the brilliance of the       translators, Anthea Bell (Austerlitz, Campo Santo) and Michael       Hulse (The Emigrants, Vertigo, The Rings of Saturn) whose ability       to render Sebald's fugal prose and humour in English without losing his       Grimm-like meanderings and deft handling of horror, in no small way       accounted for the fact that most readers of Sebald come to him as English       literature.'
Since 1991, Howard and Bogoczek have translated some of Poland's leading       contemporary authors into English.
These collections have been published       by independent publishing houses in the UK, Canada, Australia, the       Netherlands and Poland.
The public recognition of their work demonstrates       its significance and reach.
Howard and Bogoczek were asked by the New         York Times to commission and translate poems by Lipska to       commemorate the fall of the Berlin Wall.
In 2011 they translated Lipska's       A Bird for `Poems on the Underground', an international cultural       programme to celebrate the Polish presidency of the EU.
Mother         Departs, Rozewicz's memoir translated by Bogoczek and edited by       Howard, was launched at the Southbank Centre, London, May 2013, as part of       the London Literary Festival, and featured in The Independent       (28.5.2013).
Extracts of Mother Departs were performed at the       Polish Embassy, 27 April 2013.
The founder of the People's Book Prize was       present, and as a result of the presentation changed the rules governing       the award to permit the nomination of translations.
Mother Departs       was invited for submission to the non-fiction section of the People's Book       Prize 2013.
As new literary productions, the translations of Freely, Hulse and Howard       have generated economic benefits for the publishing industry, and       especially for independent publishing houses that specialise in       translation.
Freely's English translations of Pamuk's novels have been       published by a major international publisher (Faber and Faber) and have       sold over 1 million copies worldwide, while Howard's translations have       been published by houses that specialise in poetry or translation: Arc       Publications, Stork Press, and Wydawnictwo Literackie       (Krakow-based publisher of Polish language classics of the 20th century).
Hulse's translation of M&#252;ller was published by Portobello Books (a UK       independent publisher); his translations of Sebald were published by       Harvill and New Directions (both independent publishers specialising in       translation).
The paperback editions have sold more than 100,000 copies       worldwide (excluding the US).
Improving literary translation practice       As a leading figure in professional associations for writers and       translators, Freely has been involved in improving the profile and quality       of professional literary translation.
She helped found the Literary       Translation Centre at the London Book Fair in 2010.
An annual sub-section       of the LBF, the LTC promotes literary translation through a seminar       programme, advice for translators, reports, information about funding, and       acts as a hub for networking among translators and with publishers,       authors and editors.
Since its foundation, the numbers of visitors to the       LTC has grown steadily year on year, from 700 in 2011, 1,000 in 2012 and       to over 1,200 in 2013.
Freely was on the planning committee for the Turkey       Market Focus (`Turkey in all its colours') at the 2013 London Book Fair.
The Market Focus programme, organised by the British Council, aims to       create greater literary and cultural links between the UK and Turkey and       to promote Turkish literature in the UK; it runs for the 18 months leading       up to LBF.
The programme included a Turkish translation prize which Freely       helped to organise and one winner was awarded a mentorship with her.
In       addition, Freely chaired six Turkish literary events associated with the       Book Fair.
She has used her experience in Turkish literary translation to       improve the visibility of Turkish literature among Anglophone audiences,       and to promote the profile and professionalization of literary       translation.
Freely is Chair of the Translation Association       (2011-present), having previously served as a board member (2007-9), and       serves as a co-opted member of the management committee of the Society of       Authors.
As chair, she has been instrumental in implementing policies and       programmes for the advocacy of professional translators and training       events for young translators.
She has overseen a mentoring programme for       young translators which has grown from two places in 2011 to sixteen in       2013, and took personal responsibility for organising the Translators       Association Industry Day (June 2012) which brought association members       into conversation with eight leading publishers of world literature.
She       speaks regularly at conferences, literary festivals, book fairs, and       societies around the world raising the profile of Turkish literature and       literary translation.
Bassnett has also contributed her expertise to the       development of the translating profession.
Since 2008, she has contributed       over thirty articles to professional journals, including The Linguist,       the journal of the Chartered Institute of Linguists, and to the Bulletin         for the Institute of Translation &amp; Interpreting (readership       7,000).
