     By re-assessing and popularising some of Britain's lesser known authors       as well as its most celebrated, the research has expanded our       understanding of the British literary tradition and with it a sense of a       shared national heritage.
It has increased public understanding of       Britain's rich literary history by inspiring new forms of traditional and       digital art - including video documentaries, mobile phone apps, e-books       and musical scores - and has also led to the preservation and presentation       of many literary artefacts through the creation of digital resources.
The Perdita Project recovers early modern women's writing       considered `lost' because these scripts survive largely in manuscript       form, effectively rendering them inaccessible to the vast majority of       readers.
Started in 1997 while Clarke was Research Lecturer at Nottingham       Trent University until 2001 when she moved to Warwick, The Perdita         Project has uncovered, catalogued and described over 450 manuscript       compilations by over 300 British women from 1500 to 1700.
The research was       sold to Adam Matthew Digital in 2003, a publisher of digital primary       source collections.
The Perdita Manuscripts, 1500-1700 collection       comprises 230 manuscripts from 15 libraries in the UK and USA.
Adam       Matthew have sold 68 subscriptions of the database to universities and       organisations in the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the UK and       Ireland, Hong Kong and the Netherlands, while the royalties to Warwick       have earned over &#163;86K to date.
Unlike other digital collections of early       modern women's writing, The Perdita Manuscripts collection offers       digitized images of the documents and gathers together little known       materials from disparate locations.
Genres represented include account       books, diaries, religious writings, prose, poetry, cooking and medical       recipes, and autobiographical material.
The online resource has given       access to unpublished material to libraries and their users around the       world and generated economic benefits in digital publishing.
By making women's manuscript writing accessible, The Perdita         Manuscripts collection has introduced women writers into Britain's       literary history.
This goal is shared by Labbe who has sought to       re-position Charlotte Smith within British Romanticism and within the       natural landscape of her South Downs home.
Labbe has succeeded in       increasing public awareness and knowledge about Smith in the region       through an exhibition and by enhancing tourist information.
The Smith family residence, Bignor Park in Sussex, now a privately run       stately home, has improved the visitor information about the historical       significance of the house and its relationship to Smith.
It has introduced       a webpage about Smith, for which Labbe provided the content, and a       pamphlet for the garden tour also written by Labbe.
Visitors to the house,       which numbered over 500 in 2012, have the opportunity to learn about its       connection to Smith, its importance as a subject for her writings and the       contribution of her writings to Romantic poetry.
The owner of Bignor Park       has acknowledged that the pamphlets add `value to the overall visitor       experience' and that `as a result of Jackie's input, Charlotte Smith is       now an important focus of our educational and visitor information, having       been entirely omitted before.'
The work at Bignor Park was complemented by       a month-long art and literature exhibition at Eastbourne Library (May-June       2011).
The exhibition was free to all library users and was considered by       the library manager to have been `successful with people stopping to look       at it frequently.'
All of the 500 pamphlets and 500 postcards produced for       the exhibition were distributed, indicating that at least 1,000 people       spent time exploring the exhibition.
Labbe's engagement activities in the region inspired the creation of new       art forms.
Composer Ned Bigham wrote a choral piece based on Smith's       Sonnet XCII for the Whispering Woods event in 2012 hosted at Bignor Park,       organised by Creative West Sussex and sponsored by West Sussex Arts       Partnership and Arts Council England.
A second new piece of music by a       local composer based on Smith's poem `Beachy Head' was performed by a       string quartet at the 2012 Open Art festival showing local artists and       musicians in the village of East Dean, East Sussex.
The concert attracted       an audience of 100, of which 80 were members of the general public (&#163;10 /       ticket), generating much needed income for a small village arts festival.
The organisers were inspired by the increased presence of Smith in the       region and used the information Labbe provided for the website to       construct their programme (email correspondence).
The researchers have exploited new digital communication methods for       encouraging a greater and more in-depth engagement with traditional       literary works.
Labbe was engaged by an independent filmmaker to produce       videos about Smith, which are available on YouTube.
As of July 2013, the       3- part series had a total of 4,025 hits.
The videos have been embedded in       an e-book of The Old Manor House.
For the bicentenary of Dickens'       birthday (February 2012), Mee led an interdisciplinary project with       colleagues across the university and from the heritage industry about       Dickens' life, works and legacy.
The project produced a 45-minute       documentary, a series of podcasts and a mobile phone app (total downloads       for podcasts and videos 1,134,430; plus another 10,556 views of videos on       YouTube).
The Celebrating Dickens documentary won the British       Universities Film and Video Council Award for Education In-house       Production at the annual award ceremony on 18 April 2013.
The BUFVC's       Learning on Screen Awards celebrate and reward excellence in the use of       moving image and related media in learning, teaching and research.
Unlike       other Dickens mobile apps which have only the text of his novels, Celebrating         Dickens offers a plethora of podcasts, articles and videos exploring       Dickens' novels and adaptations of his work, based on Mee's publications.
Available since February 2012, the iPhone (rated 4.5 stars) and Android       (rated 4.6 stars) apps received a total of 11,383 downloads up to July       2013.
Mee's research on Dickens has led to invitations to contribute to       bicentenary celebrations of Dickens at other institutions.
Mee's public       lecture on `Dickens' Points of View' at the Bodleian (June 2012), had a       public audience of 60.
Feedback from his National Maritime Museum lecture       on Dickens' use of imagery in his writing (Oct 2012) showed that the       audience of approximately 25 members of the public discovered a new       approach to engaging with Dickens' novels.
The reach of the impact has       been worldwide and has been achieved via online engagement and new media,       and is demonstrated by worldwide media interest; the geographical spread       of The Perdita database sales to libraries worldwide; and the       volume of Dickens podcast and app downloads.
The reach has also been felt       in local communities, such as in the South Downs, who have benefitted from       and adapted the research to create new artworks and musical compositions.
