     Warwick's creative writers have extended public understanding of creative       writing beyond the purely literary to include other forms of writing such       as science writing and journalism.
Through activities that share the       processes of creativity and literary expression with the wider public and       that help young people and up-and-coming writers to launch their careers,       they have shown how creative writing can impact on diverse professional       fields and contribute to political campaigns and debates.
Freely's writing illustrates the political role that creative writing can       play in highlighting human rights violations and limits on freedom of       expression.
She has raised awareness of the constraints on free expression       imposed in Turkey where many writers, scholars and other public figures       are being prosecuted for discussing taboo topics which challenge the       nationalist mythology.
A long-standing member of the charity English PEN,       Freely actively campaigns for free expression in Turkey by writing on       behalf of Orhan Pamuk and many others prosecuted for insulting       Turkishness, attending numerous trials in Turkey, and working to promote a       historically grounded understanding of Turkish culture and politics in the       UK and US.
As a result, Freely has become involved in an international       network of writers, human rights lawyers, and scholars who use oral       history to challenge officially enforced national narratives in the lands       of the former Ottoman Empire.
2013 proved to be an important year for       calling attention to the limitations on free expression imposed by the       Turkish stat; especially pertinent at a time when the Turkish state is       seeking EU membership and boasts one of the fastest growing economies in       the world.
In view of this, Turkey was the focus of both the London Book       Fair Market Focus and English PEN's international campaign.
Freely played       an important role in designing and bringing to fruition both programmes of       activities.
Alongside the LBF Market Focus programme, designed to create better links       between the UK and Turkish publishing industries, the British Council       organised a cultural programme of more than 60 events with Turkish writers       in the UK (14-20 April).
The British Council was initially uncertain about       including minority or dissenting voices, however, working on behalf of PEN       and the Translation Association (a co-organiser of LBF), Freely was       centrally involved in the planning and delivery of a programme that       respected and celebrated the diversity of Turkish writing, while giving       space for the free and open discussion of subjects previously considered       taboo.
In addition to playing a major role in a series of high-profile       public events organised by the British Council in Istanbul, Freely was       instrumental in setting up a series of round tables that brought key       members of English PEN into conversation with young Turkish academics and       human rights lawyers based in London.
English PEN and the British Council       ran a roundtable (Chatham House rules) in April 2013 chaired by Freely at       which nine Turkish writers, publishers and scholars spoke openly with       leading members of English PEN about their concerns, in the presence of       twenty observers, including senior and junior human rights lawyers, the       director of the British Council in Turkey, and leading campaigners from       International PEN.
Freely also worked with English PEN on a series of       round tables aiming to bring the organisation up to speed on threats to       free expression in Turkey and to determine how best to work with Turkish       PEN and Turkish writers and writing.
These three round table events       (October, December and February 2012-3) brought selected members of       English PEN into conversation with Turkish scholars, writers and human       rights lawyers.
Founded in 2009 by Michael Hulse and Donald Singer of Warwick's Medical       School, The Hippocrates Prize highlights the symbiotic       relationship between poetry and medicine.
The prize is awarded annually       for unpublished poems on any medical topic in three categories: Open       International, NHS staff, and Young Poets (introduced in 2013).
The       Prize's popularity reflects its dual role in shaping and reflecting the       view that poetry encompasses all facets of the human experience, both       emotional and physical: to date it has attracted over 5,000 entries from       professional and amateur poets and health professionals from 55 countries       (including 2,000 in the NHS category).
Judges drawn from the medical       profession, the media and literary backgrounds have acknowledged its       importance in moving the understanding of poetry in new directions: BBC       Radio 4 presenter, experienced literary prize judge and 2011 Hippocrates       prize judge Mark Lawson said, `The Hippocrates, though, turned out to be       by far the most fascinating task of literary adjudication.
This is because       the entry is so broad: from professional poets to those who have       experienced the health system as doctors, nurses, patients, administrators       or relatives.'
(The Guardian, 9.5.2013) The prize is also important       for the way in which it helps medical practitioners better understand       their patients' experiences of illness.
The 2013 winner in the Open       International Category, an internist at Harvard Medical School, said that       poetry has `made me not only a more attentive and caring doctor, but also       much more efficient'.
The Prize is supported by the charitable       organisations: Fellowship of Postgraduate Medicine; Cardiovascular       Research Trust; Heads, Teachers and Industry; and The Wellcome Trust.
The Hippocrates Prize Press (established 2011) publishes the Prize       Anthology of winning and commended poems in the Open International and NHS       categories, as well as other creative writing by NHS staff.
The 2012 and       2013 prize anthologies have sold out their 300 copy print run.
Born in         the NHS (2013) - an `A to Z' of health in prose and poetry by NHS       employees Wendy French (former head of the Maudesley and Bethlem Hospital       School and Jane Kirwan (a dentist) - has also sold its 300 copy print run       and has been reviewed in the online cultural magazine London Grip       (Summer 2013).
In November 2011, The Hippocrates Prize was awarded       the Times Higher Education Award for Excellence and Innovation in       the Arts.
Founded in 2008, the Warwick Prize for Writing is an innovative       literature prize which recognises an outstanding piece of writing in       English in any genre or form.
By breaking down the usual categorisations       of writing, the prize pursues the moving edge of creative writing and       explores how the process of writing can travel in new and unknown       directions.
The bi-annual award has been presented in 2009, 2011 and       September 2013 and received extensive media coverage worldwide.
The       previous winners, The Shock Doctrine by Naomi Klein (2009) and Dazzled         and Deceived by Peter Forbes (2011) are works of non-fiction which       reflect the ways in which `creative' writing might be redefined.
The 2013       winner was Alice Oswald for Memorial, a re-working of Homer's       lliad.
Warwick's writers have supported the emergence of new forms of literary       expression by providing publishing opportunities for new authors.
This       role is played in part by The Warwick Review, a quarterly magazine       of new British and international writing founded by Michael Hulse (over       5,000 issues distributed since its foundation in 2008).
Fiction and poetry       from The Review is regularly reprinted in high-profile anthologies       in the UK (Best British Stories, Best British Poems, The Forward Book         of Poetry) and abroad (Best Australian Poems, Best Irish Poems).
The ability of The Review to help launch literary careers is       illustrated by the number of new writers recognised for excellence.
For       example, three short stories first published in The Review were       included in Best British Short Stories 2011 (more than any other       UK literary publication).
The Review has included work shortlisted       for the prestigious Pushcart Prize for Small Presses in the US (Jennifer       Clement, `Machine Gun Bouquets') and the Forward Poetry Prize in the UK       (John Kinsella, `Mea Culpa: Cleaning the Gutters').
It was praised in the       Times Literary Supplement as a `useful model for a contemporary       literary-cultural magazine' (2009).
Similarly, the Department's commitment to developing the future of       creative writing is equally evident in its work with young writers.
In       collaboration with the International Gateway for Gifted Youth (IGGY), an       educational programme run by the University targeting young people aged       11-19 around the globe, Warwick's creative writers have delivered courses       on `Creative writing and comparative culture' to 14-16 year olds at       Warwick (2008, 2009), in Singapore (2008), and Botswana (2010).
Each       practical writing course was attended by twenty students and was designed       to help students develop their writing skills in poetry, prose fiction and       non-fiction and to become more confident self-learners.
In 2010, the Department established a short story competition for young       people aged 11-19 with IGGY and Litro Magazine, a literary       magazine that specialises in short fiction.
The winner receives &#163;2,500 and       the winning submission is published in Litro and featured on a       poster in the London Underground.
In 2012 the competition attracted nearly       450 entries from 49 countries.
One of the writers shortlisted in 2012 has       said that `it's genuinely the experience that taking part in an       IGGY competition gave me, the chance to put my feelings out there and have       them accepted, the experience of being a `real writer' that changed things       for me.
I'm now working on my first novel'.
The Department's mission to promote creative practice beyond higher       education is further demonstrated by its contributions to the publishing       industry.
Former graduates have established innovative and prize-winning       publishing houses, including: Nine Arches Press, nominated for prestigious       Michael Marks Awards for poetry pamphlets; Silkworms Ink, at the cutting       edge of electronic publishing; and Heaventree Press, a radical       not-for-profit publishing house, winner of the Raymond Williams Prize and       dedicated to promoting arts in Coventry and the surrounding area.
The use       of new media has enabled the Department to stimulate interest in       innovative creative writing by creating accessibility and inviting       proactive engagement on the part of the general public.
Morley's podcast       series Writing Challenges and Poetry Challenges -       distributed freely on iTunes - encourage listeners to develop their       creativity as writers and readers (between 2008 and 2010, there were 2,000       downloads per week; Apple used Writing Challenges in its       advertising campaign on TV, print advertisements and posters and two of       its episodes were pre-loaded on demo Macs in Apple Stores worldwide       (Spring/Summer 2012).
In February 2011 Writers at Warwick - an       archive containing more than 200 interviews with over 150 writers who have       visited the University since the 1970s including Allen Ginsburg, Hanif       Kureishi, Doris Lessing, Salman Rushdie, Mario Vargas Llosa - was made a       free app (in its first two months, this app was the 4th 'Top Free' in the       UK App Store Education store; more than 10,000 copies of Writers       have been downloaded to date.
