     Carter was committed from the outset to the widest possible dissemination       of her research on Bal&#225;zs.
Her fundraising efforts to this end with       various bodies including Screen and the Kraszna- Krausz foundation       culminated in a symposium for academic and public audiences, which was co-       funded and co-organised with Screen, with further support in kind       and financially from the University of Warwick and the University of       London/School of Advanced Study Institute for Germanic and Romance       Studies.
The symposium inspired an exhibition and related public outputs       that refigured Bal&#225;zs's writings in the more widely accessible media of       photographic collage, public talks, a project website, and screenings of       classical popular film.
The impact is thus two-fold: on the artist who was       inspired by Carter's research to collaborate on the exhibition; and on the       audiences who viewed the exhibition, attended a related book launch and       film screenings, visited the websites associated with the project, and       read online and magazine reviews (see `References' above) that situated       the volume in relation to developments in contemporary film.
The impact began in May 2009, when Carter co-organised with Annette Kuhn       (QMUL/Screen), and delivered a paper at, a symposium on Bal&#225;zs at       the Institute for Germanic and Romance Studies (IGRS), London.
The       symposium was one of a series of events celebrating Screen's 50th       anniversary; Screen had co-funded the Bal&#225;zs translation, and       joined with the IGRS, Warwick and Berghahn books in staging an event that       drew participants from outside academia including European film       practitioners, and the artist and curator Zsuzsanna Ard&#243;.
Ard&#243; had long       been interested in Bal&#225;zs's work, and Carter's paper as well as the       publication of the Screen extract from Livingstone's translation       prompted an approach to Carter to work together on an exhibition and       related public events.
Carter applied to, and won from the Warwick       Institute of Advanced Study an Impact Award of &#163;2500 to support the       project; modest further funding was supplied by the Department of German       and Berghahn books.
With Carter as academic advisor, Ard&#243; developed a       collage-based exhibition which placed Bal&#225;zs's texts in juxtaposition and       dialogue with stills and photographs from the films he discusses in Visible         Man and The Spirit of Film.
Mounted initially in the       members' lounge at the British Academy of Film and Television Arts       (BAFTA), 195 Piccadilly, The Spirit of Film: the Road to Casablanca         via B&#233;la Bal&#225;zs grew out of meetings from September 2009 on, when       Carter worked collaboratively with Ard&#243;, discussing the selection of texts       and images, liaising with BAFTA staff to organise a book and exhibition       launch and screening, and producing copy for the publicity material and       website.
BAFTA was fully involved as a project partner: BAFTA's graphic       designer assisted with the artwork under the direction of Ard&#243;, and the       communications manager included the launch in the BAFTA official       programme, advertised in the BAFTA newsletter to over 6,500 members.
Further partners were Berghahn, who contributed funds for a wine       reception; and the BFI and the Luk&#225;cs Arch&#237;vum, Budapest, both of whom       provided images and related material, the latter on the basis of previous       contact with Carter relating to picture research for her introduction to       the Berghahn volume.
The BAFTA exhibition opened on 8 June 2010 in the BAFTA members' lounge       with a private view and book launch for over 100 invited guests, funders,       and BAFTA members.
The launch culminated in a screening in the BAFTA       cinema of Michael Curtiz's Casablanca (1942), a film that Carter       presented in a brief introductory talk on the wider history of Central       European exile to which the film alludes and that also marked the personal       life stories of both Curtiz and Bal&#225;zs.
Amongst the distinguished guests       at the screening and launch were representatives from the Kraszna- Krausz       Foundation, the Oxford Hungarian Society, and the BAFTA founding member,       BAFTA Fellow and first British Film Commissioner, Sir Sydney Samuelson.
Carter has maintained contact with Sir Sydney since that event; an       interview with him on his early activities as a cameraman for the Colonial       Film Unit will feature in her forthcoming research and publications on       German-Jewish exile in the British Empire after 1933; she co-organised a       panel with him at a London Screen Studies postgraduate research training       conference in November 2012, and further impact activities are envisaged       including film talks and screenings around her future research.
The Spirit of Film: the Road to Casablanca remained on display at       BAFTA from June to October 2010, where it was open to members only.
A       parallel exhibition then toured to Everyman Cinema locations in London.
It       was on display in the lobbies of Everyman Hampstead from June to August       2010, Everyman Belsize Park in September, and Everyman Baker St. in       October and November 2010, reaching audiences via this route for one of       the oldest and most established independent cinema chains in the capital.
The exhibition continued to feature on the BAFTA website throughout 2010;       it has gained longevity via the Warwick Bal&#225;zs website, which features a       slide show from the exhibition, photographs from the book launch, and       supporting text on the project and on Carter's work on Bal&#225;zs.
The       exhibition's continuing online presence is further assured by its       profiling on Ard&#243;'s own website.
Her page on the exhibition features       visitor statements and comments from BAFTA collaborators noting how her       show captures `incredibly well the ideas that Bal&#225;zs was trying to       communicate,' and observing further that `[t]he exhibition looks fabulous       in situ both for its immediate visual impact and for piquing       people's interest so that they take a closer look to get each image's       meaning....A pioneering project in many ways.
Bal&#225;zs would be proud!'.
The reach of the impact is evidenced by the estimated over 30,000 members       of the public who had access to the exhibition (estimates are based on       Everyman Cinema ticket sales: Hampstead 13,603; Belsize Park 4,167; Baker       St 13,224), as well as guests at the launch, and the BAFTA members who       used the lounge (figures for the latter are not available).
Further       evidence is provided by sales of the book: 353 (pbk/hbk) in the US       generating revenue of $16830.72 and 133 (pbk/hbk) in the EU, generating       revenue of &#163;3573.79.
The Bal&#225;zs webpages on the German Department website       have received 5228 hits (average 95% external).
Having re-interpreted the history of Bal&#225;zs's early film theory for       non-academic audiences in the form of an English translation and a public       symposium, Carter's research, in sum, inspired and supported an exhibition       that has in turn - as the BAFTA website stated in its comments on the       project - supported `BAFTA's charitable remit to educate and inspire both       the public and film, television and video games industry practitioners       about the moving image.
Its content will educate our membership and       visiting members of the public about Bal&#225;zs's little-known work as a film       theorist and practitioner.'
