     Key prints from the Tableaux collection at Waddesdon Manor were       used to create teaching resources and educational activities, introducing       primary and secondary school pupils to the Revolution and to source       analysis.
The research has improved understanding of the Tableaux       at Waddesdon among its staff and visitors (both virtual and in person) and       supported the historic house in achieving elements of its institutional       strategy.
1.
Impact on the Heritage Industry     `Waddesdon Manor's mission is to enhance understanding and enjoyment         of the collections, and research is the foundation on which this should         be built.'
(Curator).
Warwick's projects (digital catalogue,       exhibition, and educational resources) based on research into the Tableaux       have helped Waddesdon work towards this.
Waddesdon's institutional       strategy involves creating a general online catalogue (for completion       2015/6), and the Tableaux project has contributed significantly to       this objective.
400 prints were catalogued, digitised and contextualised       by doctoral students Claire Tr&#233;vien (Warwick) and Paul Davidson (QMUL),       supervised by Astbury, Colin Jones (Professor of History, QMUL) and Juliet       Carey (Curator of Paintings, Drawings and Sculpture, Waddesdon).
The       academic supervisors had overall responsibility for the research, ensuring       the accuracy of historical interpretation and understanding.
They verified       the translations, worked closely on the in-depth commentaries for 54       feature prints, and helped to prepare the introductory material for the       digital catalogue.
Astbury's expertise on the symbolic projection of       political attitudes towards or against the Revolution fed directly into       the interpretation of the prints.
For instance, Astbury's research into       the use of the natural world as a response to the Revolution was important       since 300 of the 400 prints contain recurrent motifs recalling the       rootedness of the natural world.
Astbury identified in her 2011 article       that trees were often used to represent the stability of the old order and       the constancy of the natural world in the face of revolutionary upheaval.
The digitised prints, which went online in 2011, have allowed Waddesdon       to display part of the collection not normally accessible to the public.
It has strengthened Waddeson's links with outside institutions and raised       awareness of the collections among the academic and curatorial       communities, and with the broader public.
Having the prints digitised has       allowed them to be featured in other forums, such as the BBC History Extra       Website in February 2013 (1197 page views to July 2013).
Waddesdon has       also benefited from increased exposure to school pupils who have been       introduced to the prints through the resource packs developed by Astbury.
The research was also presented as an exhibition, `A Subversive Art:       Prints of the French Revolution' at Waddesdon, seen by an estimated 45,000       visitors April-November 2011, co-curated by Tr&#233;vien, Davidson and       Phillippa Plock (Waddesdon).
The Tableaux volumes were displayed       alongside the digital catalogue and 20 poster-size reproductions of prints       (with explanatory text), selected to give visitors a sense of the various       print techniques used and the political messages conveyed in the prints.
Contrasting images were displayed side by side which allowed visitors to       appreciate the complexities of Rothschild's collecting tastes, not usually       a feature of the visitor experience.
The exhibition was accompanied by a       special interest day (Oct 2012; 16 participants) and a trail throughout       the house which drew attention to objects and individuals associated with       the French Revolution.
The trail was singled out for praise in the Enjoy       England Visitor Attraction Quality Assurance scheme annual visitors'       report (2011) as being a `stimulus for visitors to more fully appreciate       the extensive contents [of the house].'
2.
Impact on Education     The research has been used to develop educational initiatives to enhance       teaching and learning of the national curriculum in Modern Foreign       Languages (MFL), History, Literature and Citizenship at primary and       secondary level.
300 secondary schools and FE colleges in the UK received       the resource pack for History A-Level and IB students developed from the       prints by Astbury (with educational expertise from A-level history teacher       Andy Holland).
Astbury's research was used to establish the historical       framework, identify the prints' key themes and highlight the importance of       symbolism, the possibility of implicitly communicated messages, and the       illustrators' motives to understand better the meaning of the prints.
The       pack and supplementary online resources are available to download via the       Historical Association website and Warwick's French department website.
Since the resource packs were made available in September 2012, there have       been a combined 3,753 hits and 343 downloads.
Teachers who have used the       packs have said that it has helped support the acquisition of historical       knowledge: `I used the images to develop their skills in analysing primary       evidence as well as deepening their synoptic understanding.
The texts were       very clear and provided valuable contextual information.'
(A2 Level AQA       Module `France and the Enlightenment', John Cleveland College, Hinckley,       Leics.)
According to the Access to HE History course leader at North       Warwickshire College, `No one in the group had formally studied the French       Revolution prior to coming onto the course.
However, with the Waddesdon       material as a focal point, they were able to assimilate new ideas and       concepts quickly and efficiently.
They seem to have enjoyed the Unit to       the extent that their enthusiasm drove them to independently organise a       visit to Waddesdon during the Easter break.'
Students on the Access to HE       course found that the prints improved their understanding of the subject,       `To be able to understand key factors during the French Revolution after       only a few weeks would not have been possible without the prints.'
(Student Feedback)     The material has been adapted to suit a variety of courses at primary and       secondary level and have been supplemented throughout the 2012-13 academic       year by curriculum support days and student research projects guided by       Astbury.
Over 200 students from around the country, ranging from Year 6 to       Sixth Form, were introduced to the prints to learn about the French       Revolution; how to analyse visual material for research; and how the       themes in the prints, such as trauma, are relevant for their courses.
Highlights include a workshop at Oxford High School (4.10.2012) for 20       GCSE and A-Level French students.
50 Year 9 pupils attended a day about       Revolutionary propaganda (26.3.2013) where 75% felt that learning how to       analyse prints greatly helped with understanding the French Revolution and       could be applied to historical study in other areas.
Nearly all of the       pupils (97%) understood that culture played an important role in politics       as a result of the session.
The material has also proved useful for       students in Languages, English Literature and History: 22 Sixth-form       students in these subjects learned about literary and visual       representations of gender, violence and power in the eighteenth century       (21.3.2013) by comparing the depiction of Marie-Antoinette in the prints       with modern film portrayal.
The material has also been adapted successfully for primary school       pupils: in Spring 2013, 42 Year 6 pupils in KS2 Citizenship undertook a       research project on the Revolutionary prints, following a workshop on       campus.
The finished projects were presented at an awards evening in June.
One student has said of his experience `Through this piece of writing, I       believe that I have developed my research and finding information skills.'
(Holbrook Primary School, Coventry, Summer 2013).
