 Academic Enterprise and enhanced awareness of evidence based management of acute injuries across a broad medical field This body of work has been widely accessed by medical researchers and clinicians with online statistics show that our research has been downloaded to full text over 40,000 times.
This work has also been disseminated across a broad medical field through invited presentations at over 11 scientific conferences including the British Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society, American College of Sports Medicine, Physios in Sport UK, the Royal College of Surgeons, International Ankle Consortium, and London Marathon Medicine.
We have developed web based learning modules in collaboration with the BMJ (Continuing Medical Education Project) (Source 1) and Cochrane Collaboration (Cochrane Journal Club module) accessed &gt;5,000 times by researchers in UK, USA, India, Brazil, Spain, and Germany (Source 2).
We have developed educational technology resources to accompany our research which have also been highly accessed; these include a learning DVD in collaboration with the American College of Sports Medicine and a podcast which is the 7th most downloaded file on the Mobiltape website (out of a total of &gt;300 scientific podcasts, 76 downloads up to February 2013) (Source 3).
Our work on evidence based management of acute soft tissue injuries has been incorporated into the teaching curriculum at Masters level (University of Cardiff) (Source 4) and we have contributed to specialist CDP training days for elite Sports Medicine teams (Arsenal Football Club), Higher Education Research Institutes (University of Northumbria), Sport Wales, Football Association (English FA), and the Royal College of Surgeons, England (Source 5).
Additional Academic Enterprise activity includes the development of a Computer Application (App) (Source 6).
The content of this App is based on our previous research and provides evidence-based guidelines for acute injury management.
This project was externally funded by the Public Health Agency.
The App has recently been submitted to NHS Choices which is the UKs biggest health website and includes over 20,000 regularly updated articles and other multimedia resources.
By the end of 2013, the App will also be available for commercial download for practitioners and patient user groups directly from the Google Play store, providing further capacity for knowledge transfer.
Contribution to International, European and National Medical guidelines on soft tissue injury management and First Aid This research has contributed to and is referenced within current International, European and National medical treatment guidelines.
These include clinical guidelines: UK Clinical Guidelines For Acute Soft Tissue Injury Management [endorsed by the SKIPP project (Supporting Knowledge in Physiotherapy Practice) and distributed to over 150 clinicians] (Source 7); two versions of Royal Dutch Society for Physiotherapy Guidelines for acute ankle sprain treatment (KNGF 2006 and 2012); and International and European First Aid guidelines (see other sources C-E).
Our research also forms part of the course curriculum on the first aid guidelines of the Football Association (FA, Intermediate First Aid for Sport Course) (Source 8).
Challenge to conventional wisdom on acute soft tissue injury management and stimulation of debate in international news, bestselling magazines and social media This research has challenged conventional wisdom, and has stimulated significant debate among stakeholders.
This includes a discussion on regional radio (U105, Ulster Radio) and interviews and coverage of research findings within international newspapers including: the New York Times, BBC News and Fox News (Source 9).
We have provided interviews and feature articles in various types of international magazines with significant debate in Science (New Scientist), Sports and Fitness (Runners World, Shape, Fitness Magazine, Four Four Two, Men's Health), Lifestyle (Marie Clare) and travel magazines (Easyjet Travel).
The readership of these magazines is between 0.5 and 25 million people each year (Source 9).
Of particular interest to sports people has been our new treatment Mnemonic for acute injury management &#8212; P.O.L.I.C.E; this has been widely cited and well received throughout the sporting community.
This is evident through numerous referencing, debates and sharing in the multi-media, with over 1,000 people sharing or commenting on this research using social bookmarking (up to December 2012).
This research has changed practice for specific groups of practitioners, athletes and lay people.
This includes clinical decision making in professional sports medicine in the UK (Source 10).
