     Discovery: Research conducted by Dr Balch into the UK government       response to human trafficking and forced labour found gaps and weaknesses       in the UK's legislation in this area and in its system of regulation and       enforcement (Balch 2012).
The work has provided evidence of lower       awareness among police officers around trafficking for forced labour when       compared with trafficking for sexual exploitation (Balch and Geddes 2011,       Balch 2012).
Evaluation of the Gangmasters Licensing Authority (Balch et       al 2009) found evidence of best practice and also developed key indicators       in order to provide robust evidence regarding the value of successful       regulation and enforcement.
Intervention: Dr Balch's research findings and recommendations       have been taken up by both government and non-government organisations to       improve both the practice of regulation and enforcement around human       trafficking/forced labour, and the analysis and evaluation of this work.
This included changes implemented by organisations recognised both       nationally and internationally as leading the fight against human       trafficking and forced labour: modification of training guidelines by the       UK Human Trafficking Centre and the adoption of performance indicators by       the Gangmasters Licensing Authority.
Dr Balch's work has also contributed       to critical analysis of the government's approach to human trafficking and       forced labour by a range of actors in the public debate.
The work       published by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (Balch 2012) has been cited by       the Council of Europe `Group of Experts on Action against Trafficking in       Human Beings' (GRETA) and the ECCR (Ecumenical Council for Corporate       Responsibility).
The Joseph Rowntree Foundation cited the work in their       submission to both the Northern Ireland Human Trafficking and Exploitation       (Further Provisions and Support for Victims) Bill and the United Nations       (OHCHR) Universal Periodic Review of Human Rights in the UK (2012).
Joseph       Rowntree Foundation's submission to the Northern Ireland Bill was       mentioned in a subsequent debate at Stormont.
The GRETA report cites the       report as evidence of the quality of research taking place in the UK on       the topic of human trafficking for forced labour and this work contributed       to their own evaluation, which constitutes a critical assessment of UK       progress on implementation of the (2005) Council of Europe Convention on       Action to Tackle Trafficking in Human Beings.
The report has been visited       827 times and downloaded 354 times from February 2012 to May 2013.
Impact: Findings relating to problems of low-awareness of police       on the subject of trafficking for forced labour have been acted upon by       the UK Human Trafficking Centre (UKHTC) &#8212; the main body responsible for       training of UK police forces.
The National Referral Mechanism, which       records victims of trafficking identified throughout the UK (estimated to       reach 1500 in 2013), has recorded a significant increase year-on-year in       the numbers of those recorded as victims of trafficking for forced labour       (outnumbering those identified as victims of trafficking for sexual       exploitation).The findings of the evaluation of the Gangmasters Licensing       Authority has helped that agency to survive several attempts at closure by       the government through its ability to prove its effectiveness and       value-for-money &#8212; it continues to improve conditions for agency workers in       the agriculture, shellfish gathering, food and drink processing and       packaging sectors.
The government has responded to criticism regarding gaps in legislation       and is currently considering a new Bill on `modern slavery' which       explicitly recognises the problem of forced labour within the UK.
The       accumulation of critical evidence, including that provided by Dr Balch's       report for the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, has contributed to the decision       by central government to consider a new Bill on `modern slavery' (reported       by the Daily Telegraph on 22 August 2013) which could include a       consolidated legislative framework and enhanced regulatory and enforcement       systems.
Finally, the impact from the work of Dr Balch has excellent potential for       sustainability with a number of new projects developing directly from the       work outlined here.
Since 2012 Dr Balch is one of four academic members of       the UK Forced Labour Monitoring Group (FLMG) which launched in 2013 (http://forcedlabour.org/)       with a programme of events to ensure impact of research in this area       (funded by an ESRC follow-on grant awarded to Dr Sam Scott, Exeter).
The       FLMG made a submission to a government consultation in April 2013 on       regulation of employment agencies.
Dr Balch has also become team-leader       for the UK on an EU project on corporate social responsibility and human       trafficking (commenced January 2013) aiming to engage leaders in business       sectors where human trafficking and forced labour are present in order to       develop new modes of corporate social responsibility.
