     The research has increased public awareness about the political       importance of visual imagery in Fascist countries through an exhibition in       London displaying artwork designed to ridicule and condemn Mussolini's       Fascist regime on the eve and in the immediate aftermath of his downfall.
The research has led to the creation of teaching resources (3 documentary       films) which have enhanced learning in HE and FE-level education around       the world for students studying European History and Fascism.
As a result       of the research and the documentary films, Gundle was invited to join the       Scientific Committee for an EU-funded project exploring the future uses of       the built heritage of fascism and communism in South Eastern Europe.
It       has successfully established a European cultural route to promote tourism       in the region and preserve the physical symbols of this turbulent period       in European history.
The final meeting of this project was held in Forli       in June 2013 and consisted of a symposium chaired by Gundle.
The project team created materials to support teaching and learning in       HE, FE and secondary schools around the world.
The 3 documentary films       (made in English and Italian versions) combine archival footage with       original material, including interviews, oral history and location       filming, each covering a different subject: 1.
Mussolini and Fascism; 2.
The Town of Predappio, Mussolini's birthplace; 3.
Mussolini in Postwar       Italy.
These films were distributed to 250 academics and teachers (by       request) in over 15 countries around the world, including the UK, USA,       Canada, Italy, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Germany, Poland and South       Africa.
While primarily used to support the teaching of Fascism, the films       have also been used in courses on Italian History and Culture, Film,       Religion, Modern Art, Architecture and Gender Studies.
In a survey of       those who used the DVDs in their teaching, 60% did so to encourage a       greater understanding of the social and cultural trends underpinning       fascism and to teach historical facts about the ideology and practices of       fascism.
94% of users reported that the films encouraged an increased       engagement with the topic among their students.
Teachers reported that       students `now demonstrate a far greater interest in exploring aspects of       fascism in their research papers than they did prior to utilising the       DVD.'
82% routinely use the films in their teaching, several respondents       replying that `the 3 DVDs put together constitute an unprecedented tool       for teaching and research in any language' and that they are `certainly       the best AV teaching materials on Fascism available in English.'
The documentary films were first screened at a public event at UCL in       London, February 2011, which attracted an audience of approximately 200       people, including members of the general public, artists, filmmakers and       historians.
The second film about Predappio has had particular impact for       the region.
It was screened in a local cinema owned by the municipality on       25 February 2011 to an audience of 250 residents, which was followed by a       round table discussion involving the city's mayor and 3 historians about       the appropriate contemporary uses of the Fascist past.
As a result of his       research, Gundle was proposed by the municipality of Forli to sit on the       Scientific Committee of the ATRIUM Project (Architecture of Totalitarian       Regimes of the 20th Century in Urban Management), an EU-funded       initiative involving 18 partners from 11 countries in South Eastern       Europe.
Running from 2011 until June 2013, the ATRIUM project has       generated a survey of surviving Fascist built heritage (monuments,       buildings, town planning) in the region to support the formation of an       EU-accredited European cultural route which will both preserve the       region's built heritage and promote cultural tourism.
As the committee's       only historian, Gundle attended 4 transnational meetings of the project       partners and provided the historical context for the project which has       been published in its survey and brochures.
By the end of July 2013, the       partner countries established an association to manage the cultural route       and published a report on how partner countries can develop visions and       structures for managing the sites identified for their historical and       cultural significance.
To increase public awareness about the important role of visual imagery       in the cults of twentieth century dictators, the research was used to       curate an exhibition of artwork produced in Fascist Italy at the Estorick       Collection of Modern Italian Art in London.
The exhibition `Against       Mussolini: Art and the Fall of a Dictator' ran from 22 September to 19       December 2010, attracting 4,850 visitors.
It was co-curated with the       Director and staff at the Estorick and Gundle, Pieri and Storchi, who       provided contacts for collectors who lent works for the exhibition, wrote       the accompanying labels, wrote the exhibition catalogue (260 sold), and       gave gallery talks.
The exhibition brought to London art works produced in       Italy and abroad during the Fascist era with a particular emphasis on the       decline of the cult and the years immediately following Mussolini's       initial fall from power (1943), during which time there was widespread       destruction of Fascist symbols and images of Mussolini.
On display were       paintings and drawings of some of the most important Italian artists of       the twentieth century, such as Renato Guttuso, Mario Mafai and Mino       Maccari, who created artwork ridiculing Mussolini and condemning the       violence and brutality of the regime.
Gundle, Pieri, Duggan and Storchi       each gave a public talk on 4 Saturday afternoons during the exhibition on       the historical and political context of the art work and its aesthetic       qualities to audiences of 20-30 people.
The talks were recorded and       feature on the project website (see below).
Visitors expressed their       admiration for the way in which the exhibition tackled a sensitive topic,       `Really impressive special exhibition.
Hard subject matter, fascinating       images.'
The exhibition attracted media interest in the UK, Europe and       abroad appearing in newspapers in Italy, the Wall Street Journal Europe,       the Czech Republic and Panama.
It was featured in the Sunday Times       culture critical list 3 weeks running (Oct 3, 10, 17, 2010).
