     The research has mapped an unwritten history of women's television making       and viewing in Britain, 1947-1989, showing how assumptions about gender       preferences affected what is produced, broadcast and archived.
The key       impacts arising from the research are:     1) Preserving and enabling access to archival footage of early women's       television programmes.
2) Highlighting the gendered nature of past and present production       culture, broadcasting and archiving practices to media professionals and       archivists.
3) Raising awareness and knowledge about the important place of women's       programming and female audiences in the history of British television       1947-1989 amongst media professionals and the general public, especially       with women viewers from the period.
4) Enabling women to explore their own relationships with television in       light of its important social and cultural influence on identity       formation.
Impact on Media professionals (Impacts 1 &amp; 2)       Irwin's research on women's programming in the 1950s and 1960s brought to       light the BBC afternoon arts programme Wednesday Magazine       (1958-61) which has been omitted from histories of British television and       unavailable in any publically accessible archive.
Through discussions with       archive curators, the research uncovered whole episodes and several       extracts in the BBC archive, as well as over 30 surviving production       files.
The discovery of this overlooked programme led the BFI's Television       curator to acquire extracts of the series for the national collection and       for a viewing copy to be produced which is now available to researchers.
Such a discovery has raised the question as to why Wednesday Magazine,       produced with a female audience in mind, has disappeared from television       history, while it's near contemporary, the arts documentary Monitor       (1958-64) considered to be `masculine' or `neutral' has left a       distinguished legacy.
The project research directly impacted upon the       preservation and availability of archival holdings of women's television       and illuminated previously neglected areas of broadcasting history.
Further, by highlighting the impact of gender categories on archival       decisions the research has encouraged archivists to think about what sort       of television we choose to preserve for future historians and audiences.
(Item 1, Section 5)     Wheatley and Wood presented initial findings about professional women in       early television production and their struggles to produce good       `television for women' to c.25 senior women in film and television at a       seminar hosted by Women in Film and Television (WFT) UK, an organisation       for women working in the creative industries (21.09.11).
The discussion       provided WFT members with a fuller understanding of gendered television       history, and about the experiences of their predecessors in the industry.
The organisation's Chief Executive has said that `learning about the work       of women like Doreen Stephens in television in the early years of the       medium, and her struggle to produce good television for women at the BBC       in this period, connected with the experiences of our members working in       the industry both in the past and today in a variety of ways.'
As a direct       result of this meeting, Irwin's interview with women's television pioneer,       Hazel Adair was lodged in the Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph and       Theatre Union (BECTU) archive as an important resource for learning about       women in early television.
(Item 2, section 5)     Public Impact (Impacts 3 &amp; 4)       As television viewing is an important social and cultural activity with       significant impact on the identity formation of young adults, the       researchers sought to re-connect female audiences with their memories of       early television viewing.
This involved sharing the research with the       broader public through screenings of archival television footage, talks       and discussions, and a free exhibition.
Events       The research revealed that issues relevant to female viewers, such as       finding a balance between relationships, family and work, were explored in       television produced in the 1950s and 1960s, well before contemporary shows       such as Sex and the City and Mad Men.
Based on this       finding, the project team organised `Career Girls on the Small Screen' a       public event at the Phoenix Arts Centre, Leicester (8.10.2011).
The event       consisted of short talks, a screening of Irwin's interview with Hazel       Adair, creator of British soap operas Compact (1962-5) and Crossroads       (1969-85), and screenings of episodes of archive television from the 1960s       featuring working women: Compact, Rag Trade and The         Liver Birds.
By presenting the research findings which show that the       roots of much contemporary television content and format (such as audience       engagement) lay in the 1950s and 1960s rather than the 1980s as commonly       assumed, the event raised awareness about how early programming designed       for women dealt with what are often considered to be modern concerns       (Items 4 and 6, section 5).
A second public event was held at the BFI Southbank (20.6.2012) featuring       a presentation by Moseley and Wheatley about representations of women in       the workplace since the 1960s and a panel discussion involving prominent       women in the media - Abi Morgan, writer of The Hour, BBC Executive       drama producer Hilary Salmon and actor Amanda Redman - and chaired by Kate       Kinninmont, Chief Executive of Women in Film and TV.
Attracting an       audience of 112 (exceeding the BFI's expectations of an audience of c.85),       the event encouraged participants and the audience to think about the       history of women's television and its relationship with present-day       programming in new ways (for example, the importance of costume in       representation, the question of ethnicity in representations of working       women, and the limited stories told about working women) and to relate it       to their own life experiences (Items 4 and 6, section 5).
The BFI's TV       programmer (who attended the event) reported that it provided `a greater       understanding of the way women have been represented historically at work       on TV' and that Moseley and Wheatley offered `new critical tools of       analysis to better understand patterns across television history'.
The       media industry participants also expressed that the event had made them       think differently about the ways in which television represented working       women (Item 5, section 5).
The event was featured in `The Cultural       Highlights you have to see' section of the `I' newspaper (20.6.2012).
Exhibition       As a further means for engaging broad audiences with the research, the       team set up a `pop-up' exhibition in an empty shop in Coventry City centre       in collaboration with ArtSpace and Coventry City Council.
The exhibition,       open May 2012, consisted of archival publicity material (such as posters),       television related pop memorabilia and archival footage of pop music       shows.
Open to the public 3 days a week and staffed by the research team       and student volunteers from Warwick and DMU, the exhibition offered       visitors the opportunity to explore the important role television pop       music programming played in the developing identity of teenagers and young       women in the period.
Admission was free and attracted 158 visitors.
The       window display, decorated to look like a 1960s living room, including a       television playing 1960s pop programmes, was visible for the entire month,       making the research accessible to passers-by the whole time.
The exhibition allowed members of the public to share their memories of       early television viewing and to discuss with the researchers the       programmes they felt were `for them'.
Feedback via postcards and a       visitors' book showed that visitors gained a better understanding of       British television history and also valued the opportunity to revisit       their own memories of television.
The `pop-up shop' attracted media       coverage locally being featured in the Coventry Evening Telegraph       (27.4.2012; daily circulation 31,000) and on BBC Coventry and Warwickshire       radio (30.4.2012, average 86,000 weekly listeners, BBC figures).
As       further evidence of the exhibition's significance Moseley and Wheatley       were awarded the Warwick Arts Impact Award (2012) for commitment to       engaging the public with research.
Media       Wheatley was consulted for the second series of the BBC drama on early       television The Hour by a programme researcher in November 2011.
Based on the project research, she informed the production team about the       kinds of cookery programmes the character Marnie Madden would have made       for commercial television in the period.
Information supplied by Wheatley       fed into the production design and directly influenced the setup of these       scenes.
The fact that Wheatley was contacted by the production team       resulted from the public profile of the research (on the strength of       Wheatley and Moseley's interview in the Guardian) (Item 3, section       5).
Further indications of the impact's reach and significance are shown       by national media interest: Moseley appeared on BBC Radio 4's `Woman's       Hour' (19.8.11; average 4 million listeners, BBC figures) to discuss the       research findings and the project was featured in the Guardian       (6.9.2011; daily circulation 232,566, Sep 2011).
The project's social       media pages include Facebook (150 likes and 61 friends) and Twitter (138       followers) have enabled participants to share their memories of and       thoughts about women's television programming (Item 8, section 5).
