     Haedicke's scholarly work on the aesthetics and politics of street arts       has established her as an acknowledged expert in the field among       professional and scholarly colleagues.
Her expertise benefits those       outside the HE sector by offering analytic perspectives on the       fast-growing area of outdoor entertainment thereby providing academic       credibility and legitimacy to an entertainment sector often discounted as       a serious art form.
That increased legitimacy has had an impact on       funding, cultural policy and the professionalisation of the practice.
She       has used her research to support the development of new forms of artistic       expression, and to contribute to the professional development of street       artists.
That her beneficiaries - creative practitioners, festival directors,       independent researchers, and educators in professional training programmes       for early career street artists - value the input of Haedicke's work is       evidenced by the number of invitations she receives to judge and comment       on new work at street theatre festivals and professional training       programmes; to advise on challenges and opportunities faced by street       artists for government-sponsored research projects; and to speak to       general public audiences who are interested in the arts.
Invitations to       critique new work (MiramirO Street Theatre Festival, Ghent,       Belgium, 2009 and 2010, and at FiraT&#224;rrega, street theatre       festival in T&#224;rrega, Spain, 2010) testify to Haedicke's positive impact on       helping early career artists improve their work.
In 2009, FAI AR (Formation         Avanc&#233;e et Itinerante des Arts de la Rue), the only professional       street arts training institute in Europe, invited Haedicke to work with       five young artists in the programme over several days, commenting on and       evaluating various aspects of their work as part of Panorama des         Chantiers, the five-day capstone event.
Haedicke was invited back to       Panorama des Chantiers in 2013 as one of three observateurs       to examine and comment on the artistic creations of all the young artists       in the programme.
After her public presentation on the work before an       audience including professional artists, journalists, festival programmers       and students, one of the pioneering street artists from G&#233;n&#233;rik Vapeur       commented that she finally understood the shift from resistant work of the       1960s and 1970s to the more collaborative work of today.
Artists in       several street theatre companies, for example, Friches Th&#233;&#226;tre Urbain,       Op&#233;ra Paga&#239;, Jeanne Simone, Osmosis, Etxea and others, have       acknowledged the impact of Haedicke's critical analyses of their       productions on their creative processes.
Sarah Harper, Artistic Director       of Friches Th&#233;&#226;tre Urbain, uses Haedicke's critiques of the       company's productions to augment grant applications and in promotional       materials.
She has said that these analyses `enable her to understand       intellectually what she has created intuitively' and that, in turn, helps       her develop the work further.
Fr&#233;d&#233;ric Etcheverry of the artistic duo       Etxea has asked for a continuing dialogue with Haedicke as he and his       partner develop their new community-oriented piece, Transversales 13,       as part of 2r2c's `Territoires et Questions' over the next three years.
And choreographer and dancer Ali Salmi of Osmosis and Cyril Jaubert,       Director of Op&#233;ra Paga&#239;, have expressed an interest in having       Haedicke advise on productions as they are being developed.
Haedicke's engagement with street arts professionals, cultural policy       makers and funding bodies has focused on improving the professionalisation       of the craft through better educational provision and training programmes.
She has long been an advocate for increasing collaboration between       universities and professional street artists as a means for achieving       these goals.
She has been asked to consult on educational policy for       determining pedagogy in professional street arts training programmes, in       university/professional institutions partnership programmes, and within       university programmes training students for professional street arts in       the UK and Europe.
She was invited to participate in the first Nomadic       University for the Street Arts in Aurillac, France in 2008 where she       addressed the role that Higher Education can play in training and       legitimating street arts, two key concerns of practitioners.
Funded by the       European Commission's Cultural Programme, this initiative developed into       the annual Street Arts Winter Academy, a symposium of street theatre       practitioners, university educators and cultural policy makers reviewing       the present state of street theatre education in Europe.
Haedicke has been       an invited participant since its inception in 2011.
The theme of the       symposium that year was to promote structured education in street theatre       by identifying and developing specific pedagogical tools and curricula to       help improve existing training programmes and to improve the integration       of street arts into university-based training.
These symposia have       resulted in proposals to inform national bodies and government       organisations in the development of educational policies for street arts       throughout Europe, for example, the `Definitive Document' on street arts       training in 2013 (following the guidelines of ELIA, European League of the       Institutes of the Arts) to be published and circulated in 2014.
And, in       2009, the Independent Street Arts Network (ISAN, UK) invited Haedicke to       contribute to policy development related to street arts education and       training.
ISAN, an independent group of artists and promoters of street       arts working to develop the art form, was commissioned by Arts Council       England to map existing and proposed provision in both Higher and Further       Education, as well as to identify gaps in training and professional       development in the UK.
Haedicke has advised on partnerships between universities and street arts       companies as well as creating modules to bring this into practice.
In       2009, she was invited to develop `The Tocil Wood Project' and two units of       `Ambienti' teaching module (an online e-learning platform for the       community) in `Esperienze Culturali' for Facolt&#224; di Architettura       in Alghero, Italy.
From 2010-12, Haedicke gave advice to the       administrative director of FAI AR on educational models for       professional training programmes in street arts and on partnerships       between universities and professional training schools.
FAI AR has       developed a partnership with Aix-Marseille Universit&#233; (starting in autumn       2013) so that the graduates receive a university degree and a professional       diploma.
This model has also been established for an MA degree (MA in       Street Arts Creation) between FiraT&#224;rrega, a professional street theatre       festival, and the University of Lleida (both in Catalonia).
While Haedicke has done most of her work with organisations in Europe,       and especially in France, where street arts are better developed, she has       also worked to improve street arts in the UK.
She advised on the       challenges and opportunities faced by street artists in the West Midlands       for `Making More of Outdoor Arts', a research project commissioned by ACE       West Midlands and undertaken by an arts consultancy and an independent       artistic director.
It ran from Sep 2012 - Mar 2013 and was designed to set       the future direction for outdoor arts development.
Haedicke advised on the       potential for linkages between HEIs and the professional street arts       community and on the need for the development of a critical discourse       which can play a role in advocacy and profile- raising.
Additional invitations to participate in popular festivals and       professional conferences serve as further evidence of the influence of       Haedicke's work in the practical field.
Haedicke was invited to give       public lectures to non-academic audiences, notably `Op&#233;ra Paga&#239;'s Entreprise         de D&#233;tournement: Performance Interventions and Community Engagement'       at Coventry Mysteries Week (2012); `Can Performances in Public Spaces Find       a Place in University Courses?'
ArtVU Conference organized by Le Hangar,       Amiens University, Picardie University and HorsLesMurs, Amiens,       France (2012); and `Performing Otherness in European Street Theatre:       Alternative Expressions of Politics', for the Iowa Council for       International Understanding in Des Moines, Iowa (2011).
She was       interviewed for an essay on Friches Th&#233;&#226;tre Urbain's Witness/N14       project for the professional magazine Stradda 15: Janvier       2010 published by HorsLesMurs, and she was invited to write about       Ilotopie's production of Water Fools at the Chicago Shakespeare Theatre       (`Ilotopie and French Street Theatre', 2009,       http://www.chicagoshakes.com/main.taf?p=2,19,3,14,1,6).
She was invited to       appear as the academic expert on the BBC Radio 4 programme on street arts,       `Doing It in the Street' (26 May 2011).
As Haedicke is one of the few       scholars writing about street arts in English or French, Christophe Bara,       Director of &#201;ditions L'Entretemps, a specialist performing arts       publisher in Montepellier, France, has commissioned her book (Contemporary         Street Arts in Europe) to be translated into French so that it is       more accessible to the extensive street arts sector in France.
It was       reviewed in Stradda 27: Janvier 2013.
