     The research has contributed to discussions about the social value of the       arts within public bodies,       arts organisations and government culture departments in the UK, Europe       and Australia.
The       research's key messages have been picked up by Senior Officers in Arts       Council England,       politicians and civil servants in cultural departments, as well as by       culture professionals and       creative practitioners.
It has provided these beneficiaries with new ways       of thinking about the value       and impact of the arts and culture in a broader social context, providing       an important first step       towards developing new measurements and arguments for discussing value in       a policy context.
The research was used by Arts Council England to inform its strategic       thinking in the development       of its new strategy in 2011.
Belfiore's and Bennett's 2007 and 2010       articles were identified as       `particularly influential in reframing questions about the impacts of the       arts' in the literature review       prepared to inform the design of the strategy (2).
The review highlighted       two of their main       messages &#8212; that the debate about intrinsic v. instrumental value of the       arts has a long history and       that recent research has become conflated with advocacy.
The then Director       of Research has       confirmed that:     `The most useful aspect of The Social Impact of the Arts was not       a specific output but rather       the contribution of an in-depth, historical, critical analysis to       contemporary debates about the       role and value of the arts.
It was helpful for the Arts Council to see its       current dilemmas in the       context of thousands of years of debate and to acknowledge a rich and       well-established       discourse about the potential negative impacts of the arts as well as the       positive.
More       specifically, the classification of impacts has been a useful starting       point for other research       exercises and the work on determinants of impact has helped the Arts       Council to understand       the challenges and complexities of evaluating an individual's artistic       experience.
The research was an important part of the background literature that the       Arts Council       reviewed to inform its ten-year strategic framework.
As part of this       process the Arts Council       debated whether its long-term goals should include a focus on economic and       social impact       and eventually decided against this, choosing instead to focus on core       areas such as       participation and the sustainability of arts organisations where the Arts       Council can have       more direct influence.
The research by Belfiore and Bennett was part of       the wider discourse       that informed and gave weight to this decision.'
(3)     That the research influenced the thinking of the most senior officers at       ACE is illustrated by Sir       Christopher Frayling, former Chairman of ACE, who used The Social         Impact of the Arts in his       valedictory lecture (29 Jan 2009) to argue that recent criticisms of the       council's work deflected from       the real debates in the arts.
In particular, Frayling drew out two of the       research's key messages &#8212;       that the current debate about the value of the arts should be situated in       a long-standing discussion       going back to the origins of Western intellectual thought (chapters 2, 6       and 9, esp.
pp.
178-83) and       that the move towards evidence-based policy marginalises the subjective       aesthetic experience       provided by the arts (Introduction, esp.
pp.
5-9).
So important did       Frayling consider this work (the       only academic work referenced in his speech) that he said, `I can       recommend Eleonora Belfiore       and Oliver Bennett's The Social Impact of the Arts published last       year as a real nourishment to       public debate.'
(1) This aspect of Frayling's speech, referring to the       historical tradition of debate       about the arts going back to Plato, was cited in The Guardian (29       Jan 2009).
The research has also provided evidence-based arguments to charities and       arts organisations who       advocate policy makers to acknowledge the value spectrum of the arts and       culture.
Belfiore was       consulted by telephone by cultural consultant John Knell, co-author of the       Royal Society for the       Arts, Manufactures and Commerce's pamphlet `Arts Funding, Austerity and       the Big Society' to give       advice and feedback on early drafts.
It was distributed to culture       professionals, practitioners and       policymakers at the State of the Arts Conference, February 2011, and is       available online (4,082       unique page views and 583 views on Scribd).
The authors drew on       Belfiore's and Bennett's       research (published in 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2010) to claim that the sector       needs to re-invent the       instrumental case to argue more convincingly for the value of the arts.
The publications were       referenced 6 times; the 2004 and 2010 articles were quoted over several       lines.
Belfiore is the only       university-based researcher named in the acknowledgements.
(4)     The #culturalvalue Initiative, which began in 2012 and developed out of       Belfiore's critique of       evidence-based cultural policy (2009; 2010), works with artists and       culture professionals to       enhance their discourse about the value of arts and culture through       evidence-based arguments       and offers them a voice in the debate about value in cultural policy       making.
The #culturalvalue       Initiative connects to this community and this community to each other,       scholars, policy makers       and the general public through a website which fosters debate on how we       articulate value in terms       which are non-economic.
It features a curated blog (with contributions       from the sector in the UK       and abroad) and resources.
Three consultation events in 2013 have       connected the artistic       community with the research: `Dangerous Ground: reframing cultural value',       in collaboration with       Mission, Models, Money, the cultural professional network, and a-n The       Artists Information       Company comprised events with invited creative practitioners in Manchester       (30 artists; visual       arts), London (20 artists; performing arts) and Edinburgh (12 artists;       crafts).
Organisations       representing artists who participated in `Dangerous Ground' have said that       they think differently       about the issues surrounding cultural value after collaborating with       Belfiore, `She has created a       language and a way of framing the issue that expresses the reality and       importance of the debate       for front line practitioners that enables them to engage.'
Susan Jones,       Director of A-N, has       confirmed that Belfiore `has been instrumental in raising issues about how       to value creative       practitioners that I and others can draw on to ensure that there is some       kind of support for artists in       the next phase of funding.'
She is considered among creative practitioners       to be `a benchmark       voice on the matter.'
Her research is immediately relevant to the current debate about cultural       value in Scotland.
Creative Scotland, the national organisation which oversees funding and       development in the arts       and culture, and the professional arts sector are presently re-evaluating       the value system attributed       to the arts and culture in the country, and reflecting on the values that       should underpin a future       vision.
In addition to the consultation Belfiore held with craft makers in       Edinburgh as part of       `Dangerous Ground', she was an invited keynote speaker at the conference       `Culturing our       Creativity' organised by Creative Scotland, Arts &amp; Business Scotland,       and the Cultural Enterprise       Office, and involved arts charities and advocacy groups to identify the       conditions needed for arts       and culture to flourish in Scotland and to begin developing a strategic       narrative for future support.
Belfiore has used her research to provide advice directly to UK       policymakers.
In 2011, she was       invited to participate in two roundtable discussions (18 May and 11 July)       on protecting cultural       education with the then shadow Secretary of State for Culture, Media and       Sport and the then       shadow Secretary of State for Education.
Based on her research into the       reasons underlying       cultural policies, Belfiore argued that the Labour party needs to develop       a political argument       against cuts to cultural education in addition to economic and social       justifications.
In November       2011, Belfiore was invited to Portcullis House to advise the team for Dan       Jarvis, the new shadow       culture minister, about reforming Labour's Arts policies.
(5) She was the       keynote speaker at a       policy roundtable organised by the charity Industry and Parliamentary       Trust (5 Jun 2013).
Speaking on the theme of `The Role of the Arts in the 21st       Century', Belfiore applied her research       to the issue of value in the arts before MPs, members of the House of       Lords, ACE, and       professionals from arts and cultural organisations.
The discussion was       referenced by the event       chair in a debate in the House of Lords about the contribution of the arts       and culture to the       economy (13 Jun 2013).
Belfiore's research influences discussions about cultural value in a       policy context around the world.
Since 2008, she has been invited to give keynote speeches for       policymakers, public and private       arts funders, community representatives and stakeholders in the USA,       Europe and Australia.
(6)       She was an invited participant at a conference to develop the first draft       of Kulturleitbild Basel which       formed `part of the ground pillars of the definitive draft and have helped       to discuss and develop a       cultural policy for the Canton of Basel.'
(7)
