     Hobbs' research on Plato's ethics has underpinned her work engaging the       public with philosophy.
In her media appearances and public talks she has       used ancient Greek philosophy to present new arguments and expression for       public discourse about contemporary social and political issues.
She has       provided expert advice to government departments and charities on the       value of philosophy in education.
The beneficiaries of her activities       include UK and international broadcasters and their audiences, primary and       secondary schools, policymakers, and educational charities.
Media       By speaking about her research on a range of television and radio       programmes, including historical programmes, features, current affairs and       news shows, Hobbs has offered new knowledge about the ancient world,       skills in reasoning, and a different perspective on social and political       issues.
For instance, Hobbs participated in a panel discussion on the       London riots, a live broadcast from Birmingham city hall of the BBC Radio       4 programme Today (live audience of 800; 5.9.2011).
In response to       government comments that the rioters were `a shameless, feral underclass',       Hobbs argued that `few human beings are without a sense of honour and       shame and a desire for status and desire to count for something', which       draws directly on her research about Plato's concept of the thumos       and `the need to believe that one counts for something'.
Her appearance a       few days later on The Moral Maze `What are prisons for?'
elicited       a number of listener responses.
One email from a former criminal defence       solicitor said, `I feel very strongly about the way people talk about       youths who commit criminal offences and I found what you said both       sensitive and sensible and I really appreciated hearing your viewpoint.
I       thought that you showed a true understanding of the way those who I used       to represent functioned.'
[08.09.2011]     Her media appearances since 2008 include the Today programme on       morality and tax avoidance (28.7.2012; avg 6.6 million listeners), Nightwaves       (17.5.2012 on athletic performance and human potential; 8.11.2010 on       Heroes; 300,000 on the day listeners), Start the Week on heroism       and bravery (23.5.2011, avg 1.5 million listeners), Woman's Hour       (29.12.2011 on New Year's Resolutions, self-fulfilment and human       flourishing; avg 4 million listeners) and more than 20 appearances on In         Our Time (sample topics: Aristotle's Politics and Poetics;       Neoplatonism and Heraclitus; avg 2.2 million on the day listeners).
She       has written articles for national newspapers on ethics: The Guardian's       `Citizen's Ethics in a Time of Crisis' (`Ethics of Money'; 11.7K reads and       5.1K embedded views on Scribd) and has been interviewed for the Financial         Times and the New York Times.
Many of her media appearances have been on programmes that cover news and       current affairs showing that producers recognise the value that a       philosophical perspective can bring to discussion about contemporary       issues.
Audience responses demonstrate that her input resonates with the       listening public.
As an example of the many emails she receives from       listeners: `Firstly I should say I would have previously been a little       dismissive of philosophy or the study of philosophy as a course.
However,       listening to your interview on Radio 4 was really interesting and you drew       me in with what you had to say and how the study of philosophy can enrich       your life....As a 36 year old sales manager, I am not likely to go back to       university but I would be interested in learning more.'
[17.10.2009]     Media producers who have invited Hobbs on to their shows have expressed       their appreciation for the value her perspective adds: `Thank you so much       for coming on STW [Start the Week] this morning - I thought you       presented your definition of heroes extremely well, and I'm very grateful       for the work you did in thinking about the questions for the other guests.
Think of us in the future if you have any interesting projects.'
[23.05.2011] Melvyn Bragg, presenter of In Our Time, has said that       Hobbs has been on the programme `more than any other contributor since it       began 14 years ago!
Her ability to explain philosophy is remarkable.
She       can explain it to the lay person both succinctly and comprehensively while       never letting go of the complexity and weight of the issue involved.'
[20.04.2012] Fellow public philosophers have also expressed admiration and       appreciation for Hobbs' work: `I've been following your work for a long       time now, with huge appreciation.
You have utterly mastered your brief,       delivering first rate philosophy and true public engagement.'
[10.01.2011]     Public Events       She has contributed to public discourse and enriched cultural life by       speaking about her research at public events such as the Hay-on-Wye       Literary Festival (2012), Bristol Festival of Ideas (2011), Cheltenham       Literary Festival (2011) and the BBC Radio 3 Free Thinking Festival       (2010).
Broadcast simultaneously on Radio 3, her talk on `Heroes' was the       `Radio Choice' in The Daily Express (08.11.2010) and the `Pick of       the Day' in The Daily Telegraph (06.11.2010).
As Chair of the       Trustees of the Institute of Art and Ideas (2010-11) she was responsible       for overseeing the organisation of the Trust's festival How the Light         Gets In, which aims `to get philosophy out of the academy and into       people's lives.'
She has also spoken at the festival (2010-12) about her       research on Plato, love, metaphor and the myth of Atlantis.
The Event       Producer said of her contribution that `the truth talk was one of the       highlights of Saturday.'
[01.06.2010] In 2010, she was appointed `Town       Philosopher' for Malmesbury, Wiltshire where she also speaks at their       annual philosophy festival.
Educational and Charitable Activities       Hobbs has provided expert advice to government departments and charitable       organisations about the benefits of teaching philosophy in schools.
She       was invited to become an Honorary Patron of the educational charity, The       Philosophy Foundation, and supports the voluntary organisation SAPERE who       promote philosophy in schools and communities.
As Honorary Patron of The       Philosophy Foundation, Hobbs was invited to attend a meeting with the       senior policy adviser at the Department for Education and staff from the       National Curriculum Review and the Curriculum Policy divisions to discuss       including philosophy in the new national curriculum (07.12.2011).
She       participated in the Philosopher's Football Match in May 2010 to raise       awareness of the 4Rs campaign (reading, writing, arithmetic and       reasoning).
She has spoken at conferences on philosophy in education: she       was the keynote at the `Philosophy and Education' conference at Rugby       School, May 2012; The Sunday Times `Festival of Education', June       2011, where she spoke to audiences including politicians and educators;       and she was an invited speaker at the LSE's Roundtable on `Philosophy for       Children' (23.06.2011) where she spoke about how a school philosophy       programme can benefit from ancient Greek philosophy to an audience which       included school heads, charities, academics and policy advisors.
The       organiser has said that `The feedback I have had from everyone I have       spoken to has been incredibly good - an in particular about your       presentation, which was brilliant!
Thank you so much for all your support       and help here.'
[30.06.2011] Hobbs has also given talks to A-level       students (nearly 20 schools since 2008).
Feedback from her school visits       include: `Thank you so much for another stimulating talk.
The students       were both stretched and fascinated, and I was reminded that Aristotle's       position is far more complex than A Level textbooks allow.'
[16.05.2011]     Further evidence of the sapience that philosophy can contribute to public       discourse on major issues is highlighted by a speech in the House of Lords       by Bragg about cuts to arts funding (03.02.2011), `By chance, I did a       radio programme on Aristotle last week...Professor Angie Hobbs of Warwick       University pointed out that Aristotle thought of art as much more central       to human existence than mere pleasure.
He believed that the correct       appreciation of art was crucial for the formation of a person's character       and would improve their behaviour in society as a whole.'
