     The Nietzsche Reader (Wiley-Blackwell, 2006) has made substantial       impacts on teaching in Higher Education that extend significantly beyond       Warwick.
It is the backbone of not only philosophy courses but a range of       courses from political thought and law, to German studies and languages,       to medicine.
In doing so, it has benefitted course leaders by providing a       structured approach for teaching Nietzsche and a single, convenient source       of key readings.
It has brought economic benefits to the publishing       industry, selling ten times more copies worldwide than comparable works.
Students who use The Nietzsche Reader have benefitted from a       resource which makes Nietzsche's most important writings easily       accessible.
The book's general introduction situates Nietzsche's thinking       in its cultural and intellectual contexts enabling students to understand       the wider influences on Nietzsche's philosophy.
The chronological       presentation of Nietzsche's works enables students to see the intellectual       and stylistic development of Nietzsche's writing over time.
The selections       of key readings focus students in on the main points of Nietzsche's       thought and on selections from the corpus that guide and inform current       research into Nietzsche, such as the renewed interest in the neglected       middle period texts from 1878-82 and the distinctive character of       Nietzsche's ethical naturalism.
It does not privilege either an       `analytical' or a `continental' reading of Nietzsche but rather aims to       highlight what is unique, distinctive, and challenging about Nietzsche as       a philosopher.
The Nietzsche Reader is intended to replace A Nietzsche Reader       a Penguin Classic edited by Hollingdale and first published in 1977.
The       Penguin Reader is a slim volume intended for the general reader, and not       informed by the latest scholarship or scholarly appreciation of Nietzsche.
The Nietzsche Reader is the set text for teaching Nietzsche at       university level.
It is several times the length of the Penguin Reader,       and it adopts a chronological rather than a thematic approach.
It includes       a general introduction, six mini-introductions to the selections, a       chronology of Nietzsche's life and work, and an extensive bibliography of       primary and secondary material.
Of significance is that The Reader       includes early pieces of Nietzsche's writings that had never before been       collected into book format as well as new translations from Nachlass.
Key selections from Nachlass were first dealt with by       Ansell-Pearson in two publications in 2005 and 2006 and this research was       used to inform the introductory material in The Nietzsche Reader.
The Reader also takes into account recent developments in       Nietzschean scholarship, so providing an updated scholarly context.
The reach of the impact is demonstrated in the first instance by the       number of sales figures.
By the end of the assessment period, The         Reader had sold more than 12,000 copies worldwide, the majority to       universities and colleges, 10 times comparable books - Ansell-Pearson's Reader's         Guide to Nietzsche's BGE has sold 1200 copies since 2011; Peter       Poellner's book on Nietzsche has sold 1200 copies since 2000; Brian Lieter       reports that his Nietzsche and Morality sold 1200 between 2007 and       2012.
The sales figures are supported by popular reviews, receiving 4 out       of 5 stars on Amazon.com, librarything.com and goodreads.com (300       ratings).
Further evidence of its uptake in university courses is demonstrated by       course syllabi, including undergraduate and postgraduate courses in       philosophy, but also in other subjects, including political thought,       sociology, languages and German studies, being a required textbook on many       of these courses.
Examples of the courses for which The Reader is       required include Modern Political Thought at Carleton University (Canada),       the History of Ideas postgraduate level course at the University of Texas,       Dallas (USA) and introductory philosophy courses at the University of New       South Wales (AUS), and Northwestern University (USA).
The reach of the       impact also extends to FE colleges and independent schools who have used       the book to support the teaching of philosophy to A-level students in       preparation for university entrance, including for example, Ibstock Place       School (London) and Whitgift School (London).
The significance of the impact is demonstrated by the fact that it has       become the standard edition for teaching Nietzsche's writings in several       disciplines, replacing the previous introductory text published in 1977.
It offers teachers and students an up-to-date historiographical context       and recent scholarship on Nietzsche.
Significance is also demonstrated by       repeated use: several colleges and universities, such as Loyola College       (USA) and the Medical School at the University of Louisville (USA)       continue to use the textbook on a yearly basis.
Feedback from requestors       indicates that teachers of Nietzsche's philosophy have seen significant       value in using the resource.
Readers commented that it is a `very good       general introduction' for Nietzsche studies and `extremely valuable as a       teaching resource'.
Several readers complimented the choice of texts: `An       excellent survey'; and `This is a very good selection from the writings of       Nietzsche which is both careful and timely.
It supersedes the earlier       selections from Nietzsche such as Kaufmann.'
Thus, The Nietzsche         Reader has demonstrated that it has made a significant impact on the       ability of university-level course leaders around the world to deliver       Nietzsche in a manner accessible to students, providing them with insight       into the writings of a key thinker of the modern age.
