     Allan's research into the legacy of the German Enlightenment challenges       preconceived ideas       about justice, crime and punishment, and prompts critical reflection on       the role of education, art       and the physical environment in shaping the relationship between the       individual and society.
The       research offers a different perspective on social and moral issues to       A-Level students and adult       learners leading them to formulate new arguments and forms of expression       for understanding       social and literary history, and ethics.
The research has enriched the       cultural experiences of       creative organisations and their audiences, and the general public.
1a.
Impact on Education (schools)     This research has been used to enhance learning in A-Level Law, History,       Languages and       Literature through two school symposia in November 2012 and March 2013.
The first involved 50       students from 26 secondary schools and Sixth Form Colleges across the West       Midlands.
A film       version of Kleist's 1811 novella Michael Kohlhaas (The Jack         Bull, 1999) was shown to give       students a platform for debating competing notions of fairness, justice       and democracy with       reference to the tension between universal ideals and changing historical       settings.
Students were       introduced to new perspectives on key study topics and to new ways of       learning including a       university-style lecture, using film as a case study, and peer-to-peer       learning through group       discussion.
Students learned about legal issues in historical context, and       about the social and       political influences that can affect judicial decision-making.
Evaluation       of the event showed that       91% of participants gained new perspectives on legal issues while for       nearly half the group (46%)       engaging with the story of Michael Kohlhaas changed their own       ideas about crime and       punishment.
The event offered students an opportunity to gain a more       in-depth appreciation for       their subjects, to gain a broader range of evidence for understanding       contemporary social, political       and legal topics, and to develop critical thinking skills.
A follow-up event was advertised to schools nationwide and attracted       students from Coventry,       Birmingham, Liverpool and Greater London.
Held in March 2013 it formed       part of a 3-day event on       European literature and culture in the `Age of Austen' which offered new       interpretations and       understanding of Austen's Pride &amp; Prejudice, one of the most important       novels in English literary       history, on the 200th anniversary of its publication.
Allan       presented on eighteenth-century       understandings of education, violence and morality which were explored       further in the group       discussions.
Discussion was stimulated by screening the 1976 film       adaptation of The Marquise von         O based on Kleist's novella of the same title published in 1808.
The       film and discussions allowed       students to explore some of the key issues that troubled thinkers of the       European Enlightenment,       such as what are the causes of violence and how violent crimes should be       dealt with, as well as       exploring issues of class and gender.
Evaluation of student learning       objectives have showed that       students learned about women in the age of Enlightenment and gained a       better understanding of       the social, cultural and political currents in the `Age of Austen'.
Some       students also commented       that the content was helpful for exams in `both English and History, and       [for making] connections       between 18th century Germany, France and Britain.'
1b.
Impact on education (adult learners)     Allan's research into the reception of the art and literature of the       Enlightenment during the       nineteenth century raises issues about the way in which aesthetics can be       used to promote the       concept of a rationally ordered society.
Allan's public lecture on the art       and architecture of       nineteenth-century Berlin for the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum (4 December       2012) enabled some 55       adult learners between the ages of 28 and 65 to develop an understanding       of the ideological       underpinning of the Enlightenment and enhanced their understanding of the       cultural and       architectural transformation of Berlin during the nineteenth century.
2.
Impact on Cultural Life     The research has been used to create and interpret cultural capital in       literature, theatre and film.
Together with team members from the AHRC project `Kleist, Education and       Violence', Allan       recorded a series of 6 podcasts about Kleist's life, the intellectual       environment of the European       Enlightenment and a selection of his writings (Michael Kohlhaas, The         Marquise von O, The         Earthquake in Chili, The Betrothal in St. Domingo) for the       general listener.
Available for download       via the project website since July 2012, the podcasts have been accessed       12,383 times.
41% of       users were new to the site, while 46% of all users were from outside the       UK (until 31 July 2013).
The reach of Allan's research was extended by his appearance on the       current affairs show Reality         Check on Austria Radio's FM4 station.
The programme on the Grimm       Brothers' Children's and         Household Tales (1812) was broadcast on 12 December 2012 for which       Allan discussed       representations of violence in their work in the context of the German       Romantics' response to the       universalising tendencies of the Enlightenment.
The station is a       subsidiary of Austrian national       radio (ORF) and the station's website, which simulcasts and stores all       programmes, is visited by       30,000 unique users every day.
Allan's research has also had an impact upon the performing arts.
He was       commissioned to write       an introductory essay on J&#252;rgen B&#246;ttcher's creative engagement with the       Renaissance artists       Paulus Potter, Giorgione, and Emanuel de Witte in Verwandlungen       (1981) as a special bonus       feature for the commercial DVD release of J&#252;rgen B&#246;ttcher &#8212; Artworks       (2011).
The DEFA film       library/ICESSTORM Inc. who produce these DVDs has said `J&#252;rgen B&#246;ttcher: A       Brief Visit'       represents the first detailed examination of B&#246;ttcher's short films on       East German art and artists       ever published.
In addition to offering basic information not available to       average viewers, it       encourages new research into East German art and helps instructors use       these films in their       teaching.'
The DVD was publicly screened at the Goethe-Institut in       New York, Darkside Cinema in       Oregon, and at the DEFA Film Library, Amherst, Mass., where it was       introduced by Allan.
Sales for       the DVD to the end of July 2013 are 128 and have been sold to the British       Film Institute, London,       the Lindenau Museum, Altenburg, Germany, the International Goethe-Institut       Network, and to       universities, wholesalers and private users.
Allan's research on the reception of the Enlightenment in the twentieth       century has also       enhanced the ways in which professional artists engage with our shared       cultural heritage.
This       research fed into the RSC's recent production of A Life of Galileo       (Swan Theatre, Stratford, 31 Jan       &#8212; 30 Mar 2013; 33 performances, 13,686 tickets sold).
Allan's two-hour       workshop with the director       and 30-member cast (10 December 2012) sharpened their understanding of the       historical       significance of Enlightenment thought for Brecht's theatre, especially in       regard to the Brechtian       analysis of institutionalised power and class-based violence towards the       oppressed.
Allan also       contributed an essay for the programme about the social and political       context of the play which       sold 3872 copies.
