     In conducting the review, Cave's research team engaged extensively with       water companies,       industry regulators and government bodies, and made recommendations for       changes to the       regulation of the water industry.
Cave's recommendations were intended to       encourage greater       competition in the industry, to improve efficiency in the sector through       innovation, and thereby to       generate benefits for water companies, customers, taxpayers and the       natural environment.
Large       scale stakeholder engagement by Cave's research team and broad       consultation with the water       industry's stakeholders (private and business consumers, water companies,       and government)       overseen by DEFRA, led to the findings and recommendations of the review       receiving widespread       recognition and acceptance within legislative and regulatory circles.
In       2011, a White Paper was       published for market reform drawing on Cave's review (http://www.environment-agency.gov.uk/research/planning/135501.aspx).
The report summarises this: `Martin Cave       recommended a package of changes to increase competition and bring new       approaches and new       ways of working to the sector.
The Water White Paper includes the       Government's response to the       recommendation in the Review's assessment of the role of OFWAT and       consumer representation       on the water sector that Government should provide greater clarity to the       sector on its plans for the       extension of competition.
It sets out our plans for reform, building on       the strengths of the current       industry structure and regulatory regime and reflecting Martin Cave's       recommendation that change       should be incremental.'
In December 2011, DEFRA published a Policy Paper       `Water For Life' that       added detail to the White Paper, and explicitly acknowledged the latter's       debt to Cave's report       (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/water-for-life-market-reform-proposals).
This culminated in the New Water Bill being published in parliament in       June 2013.
Cave's       recommendations to allow for greater development of the water supply       licensing market, by       allowing all business and other non-household customers in England that       use more than 5 million       litres annually, to switch their water and sewerage suppliers.
This will       bring around a further       24,000 eligible customers into the market, increasing competition and       encouraging entry of new       providers.
Other significant developments to the regulatory regime made in       response to the review       include revisions to the licensing regime in order to allow firms which       serve only part of the water       services value chain (for example: retail, the supply of raw or treated       water to customers, waste or       sewerage services) to enter the market.
This will considerably increase       competition at some points       in the supply chain.
Cave's review proposed significant changes to the roles, responsibilities       and activities of OFWAT       and knock-on effects to related regulatory bodies (e.g.
the Drinking Water       Inspectorate).
The       review further proposed measures to place water abstraction on a more       sustainable footing.
This is       reflected in the new legislation through changing the way in which water       company schemes aimed       at placing abstraction on a sustainable footing are funded.
The       developments to the competitive       regime proposed in Cave's research have been adopted in the new Bill and       will affect the       competitive opportunities, investments, and strategies of providers of       water and sewerage       services.
Although Cave's review has already led to new legislation being tabled,       because investment       horizons and infrastructure developments are long-lived in the water       sector, direct impacts on       consumers (both businesses and individuals), and taxpayers will occur       gradually.
Nonetheless, the       evidence suggests that opening up the water market and allowing businesses       to switch supplier       could deliver benefits to the economy of &#163;2 billion over 30 years.
In       Scotland, after similar reforms       were introduced, the public sector alone is set to save around &#163;20 million       over the next three       years.
Improvements in the efficiency of the water sector stemming from       increased competition and       changes to abstraction licensing proposed by Cave's review will bring       about significant       environmental benefits.
The new environmental permitting regime has been       extended from       prevention of pollution to include abstraction and impounding licences,       flood defence consents and       fish pass approvals.
This will reduce red tape by allowing businesses to       apply for just one permit       covering these and a range of other activities.
