     The combined impact of the research has been to raise awareness and       influence agendas for reducing gender inequality in the performing arts       sector.
It has provided an evidence base for trade unions to lobby for       better employment conditions, influenced change in EU policy, and       stimulated public debate around issues of gender inequality in the arts.
The findings of the research were communicated to audiences of       policy-makers, employers, employees and performers through a series of       events at UK and European level.
Over 120 participants from Europe       attended a two day EuroFIA Gender Agenda conference in September 2008.
The       final report launch event in the European Parliament in January 2009 was       hosted by the then Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the Dublin       Constituency, and was attended by European politicians, employers,       performers and the wider media.
Parallel communication events in seven       other European countries were also held at national levels.
These events       generated international press and media coverage, provoking wider       discussion of the research findings.
Press articles from across Europe       directly referenced Dean's research findings and helped to raise awareness       of inequality in the performing arts within the public domain.
Resulting from the media attention the report received, an online       petition was set up in February 2009 by UK trade union, Equity.
The       petition called for urgent action by UK broadcasters to address the gender       imbalance and engaged members of the general public with the key research       findings.
Over 10,000 signatures were received and the petition was used       in conjunction with the research report to confront programme       commissioners and arts funding bodies to act more positively in       consideration of their gender equality obligations under the Gender       Equality Duty of 2007.
In addition, following the EuroFIA 2008 conference,       an Equity steering group was set up in response to Dean's research       engaging performers in discussions on performance opportunities for older       women.
In October 2011, the EU Audio-visual Sectoral Dialogue Committee and its       European social partners approved and adopted `The Framework of Actions on       Gender Equality'.
The Committee made explicit reference to Dean's research       and the research findings were used in the preparation of their action       framework to address gender equality, particularly the section on gender       portrayal.
The General Secretary of Equity trade union has stated that       "employers within the performing arts are signing up, adopting the       Framework and, for the first time, are actively engaging in conversations       and actions to promote gender equality.
This particularly benefits actors       in countries with traditionally weak industrial relations".
The Framework       of Actions is also being used by European national social partners to       advocate gender equality in the workplace of audio-visual performers and       other workers within the sector.
Within the UK, the underpinning research       and its findings were recognised by the Houses of Parliament and       influenced the proposal of a formal early day motion (no.
699 in 2008-09)       in 2009.
The motion was signed by 48 MPs urging the Government,       broadcasters and producers to take note of Dean's research findings and to       take action to ensure equal opportunities for female performers, so that       the real lives of real women are reflected on stage and screen.
The research has also been adopted by performer trade unions as a       negotiation tool and in their efforts to influence future policies and       legislative actions in the European Parliament.
The Deputy General       Secretary of FIA confirmed that the research received significant interest       from the international FIA members in North American, Latin American and       Africa and has been taken up in different European groups.
All FIA       regional groups have been involved in discussions on gender equality,       which was previously not the case.
This resulted in two key impacts that       were triggered by Dean's research: (1) the development of the Good       Practice Handbook; and (2) the re-launch of the FIA Charter.
Dean's       research findings were taken up by FIA and became the underpinning       influence that shaped the creation of the organisation's `Handbook of Good       Practice', published July 2010.
The Handbook outlined over 50 good       practices to promote gender equality in the performing arts and was       adopted by all FIA affiliated unions across 12 European countries.
In       conjunction with Dean's research report, the Handbook formed an integral       part of FIA's activity in lobbying for EU legislative change combating sex       and gender discrimination within the performing arts, as there is       currently no EU legislation that specifically addresses the industry.
Dean's research impacted the internal polices and standards of       international performer trade unions (FIA) and UK unions.
In September       2012 the FIA Congress redeveloped and passed the FIA Charter for Gender       Equality and Equal Opportunities committing over 100 FIA member       organisations in over 70 global countries to actively promote equality in       negotiations, contracts and collective agreement.
Importantly, it       committed these unions to creating the conditions within their own       structures to encourage women members to play a full and active role.
FIA       introduced statements committing the organisation to action for equality.
It was the first time the charter included important statements on       equality which had initially been completely absent from its constitution.
The findings also impacted the internal policy and practices of the UK       trade union Equity, and in 2012 resulted in modifications to the       organisation's rule book to include specific references promoting equality       within the organisation.
