     Through a sustained programme of research, the UKSMEF has created a       substantial and important evidence base for policy-makers and businesses.
Four distinct strands of impact activity can be identified, each of which       has been significant in improving access to finance for a range of       business sectors.
1.
Availability and cost of finance to Ethnic Minority Businesses         (EMB)     The findings and analysis of EMB finance research were a major influence       on the activities and recommendations proposed by Ethnic Minority Business       Taskforce (2007-09) Fraser's research showed that differences in finance       approval rates could be attributed to non-ethnic risk factors such as       higher rates of missed loan repayments and unauthorised overdraft       borrowing (`financial delinquency'), rather than discrimination, and thus       informed the Taskforce's recommendations proposed to the BIS on dealing       with the underlying causes of financial delinquency such as poor financial       skills.
The UK Government's responses to the issues raised by the Ethnic Minority       Business Taskforce, including the issues raised originally in Fraser's       research, are reported in `The Government's Response to the Ethnic       Minority Business Taskforce' (3 November 2009).
The policy recommendations       adopted the findings and implications contained in Fraser's research and       included actions to: establish a regional business mentoring network for       EMBs; provide advice on access to finance via the website of James       Caan/the BBC Dragon's Den portal; and promote fairness in banking.
The EMB       research continues to resonate with policy makers and has been directly       referenced by UK Prime Minister David Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister       Nick Clegg in public speeches and press conferences on matters of SME       finance.
In July 2013 the Department for Communities and Local Government       and the Deputy Prime Minister's Office published a policy paper, which       cites Fraser's research as an evidence base, and outlines the actions       agreed by the British Bankers' Association to improving access to finance       for ethnic minority businesses.
2.
Evolution of the Small Firm Loan Guarantee Scheme (SFLGS) into the         Enterprise Finance Guarantee (EFG)     Findings from UKSMEF 2008 helped underpin the 2009 evolution of the SFLGS       into the EFG.
The EFG is the UK Government's flagship intervention for       SMEs following the 2008 financial crisis, with the aim of helping       creditworthy businesses with insufficient collateral to obtain loans.
Over       &#163;1.5bn EFG loans were made in 2009-11 and, subject to demand, the scheme       will provide guarantees on over &#163;2bn of new lending to SMEs in 2011-15.
The UKSMEF findings were communicated very early on in the project to       policy makers through a member of the Barclays Bank and BIS Access to       Finance Advisory Group.
A seminar was also held at the Department for       Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (now BIS) in February 2009 at       which Fraser presented the research findings directly to policy makers.
Subsequently, the UKSMEF 2009 findings formed part of the evidence in       relation to SME finances presented in the BIS Finance Green Paper,       `Financing a Private Sector' (July 2010).
In April 2013 the BIS published       a report prepared by the National Institute of Economic and Social       Research (NIESR) to understand the changes in lending to SMEs from       2001-12.
The study used Fraser's (2012) research as a benchmark and the       core findings concurred with Fraser's results which formed the basis of       the NIESR's suggestions to Government.
3.
Impact of the 2008 Financial Crisis on Bank Lending to SMEs     Findings from UKSMEF 2009, which provided independent data on the state       of lending to SMEs in the wake of the financial crisis, were also       referenced in a report by the Business Finance Taskforce (comprised of the       six largest UK banks and the British Bankers' Association (BBA)) published       in October 2010.
The report has led to a number of commitments by UK banks       to: improve banking relationships; ensure SMEs have better access to       finance; and provide better information on SME finances.
In terms of the       latter, the Taskforce banks introduced a quarterly independent business       finance survey (SME Finance Monitor), modelled directly on the methodology       from the original UKSMEF study (at a cost of &#163;1m per annum).
In February       2011, the four largest banks and Santander also committed to putting in       place new dedicated lending capacity of &#163;76bn for UK SMEs.
Fraser's UKSMEF research analysis also influenced the Breedon Taskforce's       2012 proposals to the BIS on boosting finance options for businesses.
4.
Access to Finance for Creative Industry Businesses (CIBs)      The research also helped to inform debate among Government and creative       industries stakeholders as to CIB's ability to obtain finances by       identifying the areas of differences between CIBs and other businesses.
Fraser's CIB report (2011) formed the basis of further focused       investigation and discussion by the Creative Industries Council (CIC), a       joint forum between the Creative Industries and Government.
This led to       the publication of the Creative Industries Council Access to Finance       Working Group report (2011).
Fraser's research was pivotal to the       discussion contained within the report and its recommended initiatives.
