     There were three principal beneficiaries of the research, across the UK       and Europe:            UK Policy-makers and Parliamentary legislators       Policy-makers in the European Commission       Practitioners, employment relations bodies and trade unions          The findings provide an evidence base for UK policy makers informing       policy discussions and thinking.
The published outputs from the research       have helped shape the evaluation of the ICE Regulations outcomes by the UK       government, public agencies, employers' organisations, trade unions, HR       professional bodies and EU institutions.
The significant on-going impact       has benefited them through providing a better understanding of the       Regulations' potential implications on employment relations as reflected       by the Chair of Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration (Acas); "[...]       IRRU's research on employee voice and information and consultation has       played a big part in helping Acas formulate its own thoughts on these       subjects [...]".
The research has contributed to UK parliamentary debates.
In February       2013 during the House of Lords debate on amendments to the Enterprise and       Regularly Reform Bill, the research was cited by three Peers &#8212; Lord Lea of       Crondall, Lord Monks and Baroness Brinton.
The Peers noted its valuable       contribution and used the research findings to challenge the adequacy of       the existing legislative provisions for employee consultation and as a       means of support for the proposed amendments to the bill to promote       employee consultation.
The research impact extends to EU level policy considerations.
The       underpinning research on UK patterns of consultation was referred to in       the Commission of European Communities review report (2008) communicating       the application of the Directive within the EU to its member communities.
The report considered the study to be a notable exception to the general       EU-wide absence of `evidence-based research' into the impact of the EU       Directive.
The research contributed to stimulating the launch of an EU       wide review of Member States and their process of implementing the       Directive.
As a result of the underpinning research, in 2011 Hall and       Purcell were commissioned by the European Industrial Relations Observatory       (EIRO) to produce a comparative analytical report.
It built upon the       findings of the UK based underpinning research and mapped the impact of       the ICE Directive across 26 European countries five years after its       original implementation.
The underpinning research and Hall and Purcell's       subsequent EIRO comparative report led to further impact featuring       prominently in the European Commission's `fitness check' exercise       assessing the efficacy of the Directive (published October 2012).
The       report reproduces some of the key arguments expressed in Hall's research       concerning the limited impact of the UK ICE Regulations.
Hall was       subsequently invited by the European Commission to present the       underpinning research on the impact of the Regulations in the UK to a       further meeting of the working group in September 2011 and the main       findings and its policy conclusions were considered and adopted by the       EU-level fitness check working group.
In 2012 Purcell and Hall were commissioned by Acas to produce a       practitioner/policymaker- oriented discussion paper, `Voice and       Participation in the Modern Workplace: Challenges and Prospects (March       2012)'.
This discussion paper was considered by the International Labour       Organization (ILO) to be `a potential model' for analyses and went on to       shape the organisation's draft Terms of Reference in commissioning a study       of worker participation and voice in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)       in developing or transition countries.
The Acas discussion paper was       followed up in February 2013 with a one-day seminar for practitioners       co-hosted by WBS and Acas in London, stimulating further debate amongst       employee union and corporate representatives, as attested to by Acas.
Impacts on practitioners were achieved through dissemination at       conferences and forums which engaged international institutions,       practitioners and policymaking bodies with the underpinning research and       its findings.
These events provided informed training on the ICE       Regulations for employers, union representatives and employment relations       practitioners and included work with important organizations in the field       including: Canadian Industrial Relations Association (2010), European       Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (2011),       Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (2008), and the       International Industrial Relations Association (2010, 2009).
Through the       activities above, Hall provided unique insights into ICE Regulations at       both UK and EU level.
This work significantly enhanced understanding of       the effectiveness of the ICE Directive and has made a valuable       contribution to informing UK and EU policy conclusions on its       implementation within employer organizations.
The impact of the research       and its findings on practitioners is confirmed by the comments of leading       employment relations professionals in the IRRU Briefing (2010), with one       practitioner stating that "[...] Research findings on the information and       consultation of employees and European Works Councils have also       contributed to EEF's representations on employment issues in both       Westminster and Brussels [...]" (Former Head of Employment Policy, EEF:       The Manufacturers' Organization).
