     Influencing practice through the availability of a robust easy to use         exercise test: Health       care professionals nationally and internationally are using the MST in       clinical practice (Sources       1,2,3).
A large proportion of MSTs have been purchased by hospital       organisations (84%)       highlighting the accessibility and adoption of the test into clinical       practice (Source 1).
In CF, the MST is used in 63% of UK CF centres using exercise testing       (Source 2).
These CF       centres care for the total CF population in the UK, highlighting its       direct impact on the total       population of patients.
Specialist clinician testimonies have indicated       they can readily access the       MST, have appropriate training to use the test via the protocols developed       by our team and       administer it efficiently within the clinical setting (Source 3).
Clinicians indicated the MST enhanced       the overall care of patients through assessment of exercise associated       symptoms, evaluating       physical limitations, prescribing exercise programmes and enabling       clinicians to advise other       exercise providers outside the healthcare sector e.g.
school PE teachers       (Source 3).
Clinicians       also have indicated that patients and/or parents/carers can easily       understand the outcomes of the       MST and how it applies to their home exercise programmes to promote       overall patient care       (Source 3).
The MST has had the additional benefit of motivating patients       to engage in treatment       and promotes behavioural and lifestyle change resulting in long term       patient impact (Source 4).
Clinicians report using the MST with adults and children (above 7yrs)       further highlighting the       exposure and use of this test across clinical populations.
In CF, this research team leads a multi-lingual electronic platform -       ECORN CF - which is       accessible to CF patients, families, and the CF multidisciplinary team.
The platform provides       expert advice in CF internationally and is highly accessed by CF patients       and clinicians.
ECORN       CF has provided a further mechanism to disseminate advice about the MST       (Source 5).
Informing best-practice guidelines in CF: The research on the MST       has contributed to and is       referenced within national and international guidelines (Source 6).
These       guidelines provide       standards for delivery of CF care throughout the world and therefore have       a direct influence on       patient care and service provision.
The Physiotherapy for Cystic Fibrosis       in Australia: A Consensus       Statement, Thoracic Society of Australia and New Zealand recommend that in       CF an exercise test       should be performed annually, used to assess response to treatment       interventions and as an       assessment tool in the prescription of exercise training programs.
The       guidelines indicate that the       MST is appropriate to use in both children and adult CF populations for       these purposes and       provide a summary of the protocol for its use.
The Standards of Care and       Good Clinical Practice       for the Physiotherapy Management of Cystic Fibrosis (First and Second       edition June 2009/2011)       also recommend clinicians consider use of the MST.
Shaping effectiveness evaluation: International researchers are       using the MST in clinical trials in       CF and other populations to evaluate the effectiveness of treatments       (Source 7).
The MST has       been used in primary clinical studies (n=19) and reviews/surveys (n=3),       and with different clinical       populations including CF (n=16), cancer (n=3), obesity (n=2) and back pain       (n=1).
The MST has       also been cited within international publications (originating from 9       countries) in CF literature       (n=11) and other populations including cardiorespiratory (n=6),       musculoskeletal (n=3), burns (n=1)       and other (n=2).
The international researchers have indicated confidence       with the MST due to its       ease of use, published clinimetric properties, good correlation between       peak oxygen uptake and       performance on the MST and its suitability for multiple clinical       populations (Source 8).
Influencing training in exercise testing: Academic institutions       have accessed the MST enabling       undergraduate and clinical academic training on exercise testing.
This       research team has provided       training on the MST at European and North American CF Conferences (Source       9).
Physiotherapists also receive training on the test via local training       programmes, ensuring that a       larger proportion of the workforce are skilled in the use of this test.
The test has been embedded in       high quality postgraduate courses in the UK (e.g.
ILH Pulmonary       Rehabilitation Course) indicating       how this test is being embedded in future CF care.
