     The research has contributed to: the evidence base on SME policy       effectiveness in the UK; the justification for public intervention and       design of the UK government's flagship measure for supporting high-growth       firms &#8212; the Growth Accelerator; the design and implementation of SME       support policy measures internationally; and a programme of international       policy development work with countries in the Western Balkans in       partnership with OECD.
The 2006 study of BL by Mole and Roper, described by the BIS as the `most       robust UK evidence on the value of public business support', has informed       recent policy discussion on the value of on- line support services for       SMEs (2012) and assessments of the impact of spending by the Regional       Development Agencies (2009).
Early drafts of the 2011 `Broader or Deeper'       paper profiling the most cost-effective forms of SME support in different       UK regions &#8212; directly informed the design and implementation of the UK       government's flagship Growth Accelerator scheme to support high- growth       small firms.
Announced in the Spending Review 2010, the &#163;200m Growth       Accelerator scheme implements this type of business support across the UK       with the aim of helping SMEs with significant growth potential to grow       more rapidly.
It is by far the largest UK government intervention to       support high-growth SMEs.
It has already benefited over 6000 businesses       and aims to help 26,000 SMEs by 2015, with an expectation of generating an       additional 55,000 jobs.
Research by Mole, Roper and Storey influenced the establishment of Growth       Accelerator by providing evidence of the cost effectiveness of this type       of initiative.
It also impacted directly on the design of the Growth       Accelerator scheme which assesses firms' growth potential and assists SME       leaders to develop a growth action plan.
Mole and Roper's experience in policy analysis and development in the UK       also provided the basis for international knowledge transfer through a       programme of work in the Western Balkans.
Conducted in partnership with       OECD, this work has contributed to improved SME policy making as well as       implementation and evaluation of new initiatives, in the region.
In 2010, Roper worked with OECD and the governments of Serbia and       Montenegro in the development of support for high-growth firms.
This work       was conducted as part of the SME Charter process which aims to help       countries in the Western Balkans to upgrade their SME policy frameworks to       match those implemented in most EU countries and key findings, which had       international reach, were published as part of the 2010 SME Charter       Report.
Issues highlighted in the findings related to the supply of       finance, export market access, effective property rights enforcement and       the need for more effective scheme evaluation.
Results were presented to       government Ministers from across the region at the report launch in       Brussels.
They informed subsequent policy developments as part of the SME       Charter process over the 2010 to 2012 period and led to further policy       development and evaluation.
Roper worked closely with the Directorate for SMEs and the OECD on       proposals for new SME policy initiatives in Montenegro in 2012.
He       conducted a needs analysis among local firms, developing a business case       for the policy intervention based on international best practice and the       review evidence and then developing implementation plans.
The needs       analysis suggested a lack of managerial and exporting expertise in       Montenegrin SMEs and their need for external consultancy and mentoring       support.
The evidence suggested the potential value of a SME voucher       scheme in Montenegro aimed at enabling SMEs to access appropriate external       support.
Roper presented the case for the initiative to the Montenegrin       government.
This was accepted and a pilot SME voucher programme was       introduced in early-2012.
Early feedback from the pilot SME voucher scheme       is positive, suggesting complete take-up of the available budget and that       two- thirds of the participating firms increased their sales and       profitability as a result of the external mentoring and advice provided       through the scheme.
In 2011 and 2013, drawing on lessons from UK policy experience through       the BL evaluation and subsequent academic studies, Roper led capacity       building sessions for SME policy makers from across the Western Balkans on       SME policy evaluation.
These Capacity Building sessions were based on the       six levels of evaluation outlined in the OECD best practice guidelines       developed by Storey (2008).
In 2013 &#8212; again in partnership with OECD &#8212;       Roper provided mentoring and technical support to evaluators working on       three exemplar policy evaluation projects in Montenegro and Macedonia.
In       Montenegro, the evaluation projects related to the earlier SME voucher       programme and a programme to support self-employment, in Macedonia the       evaluation related to a job creation programme for SMEs.
Results from each       evaluation will inform policy development in the specific country and       provide exemplar evaluation studies for other countries in the Western       Balkans.
