     Sullivan-Taylor has worked closely with a number of commercial       organisations and government bodies to identify organisational       shortcomings in preparing for extreme events.
Her research has helped to       improve professional business thinking and planning practices around risk       and resilience management at strategic and operational levels.
The two       principal beneficiaries of the research have been organisations and their       BCMs, who evaluate potential risks and ensure effective responses to       minimise impacts of events, and UK policy-makers.
The key impacts can be       summarised as follows:     i. Organisational Resilience.
The research has been recognised by       numerous private sector organisations for its value and thought leadership       in developing organisational resilience.
Consequently, in 2012       Sullivan-Taylor was approached by British Airways (BA) to assist in the       evaluation of their approach to managing disruption across the airline.
The internal report produced through this process has since been used by       the Board Director responsible for Operations in redefining the BA       approach to managing disruption and has resulted in a more robust strategy       to reduce operational disruption (corroborating source 1).
In 2013, following a presentation at a conference organised by the       Industry and Parliament Trust (IPT) (see iii below), the Global Head of       Risk and Resilience at the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), initiated the       creation of a knowledge exchange partnership with WBS based on the work       and expertise of Sullivan-Taylor and asked her to sit on their       inter-organisational Business Resilience Policies Steering Group, which       aimed to develop a Global Resilience Strategy Policy.
The Policy has been       adopted by the RBS Steering Group, with continuing advice and support from       Sullivan-Taylor.
In January 2012 Marsh Risk Consulting invited Sullivan-Taylor to give the       keynote address at their annual conference for global consultants.
The       presentation challenged the organisation's thinking around its resilience       services for clients and helped them to refine their value proposition for       specific target client markets (corroborating source 4).
ii.
Training and Development of Senior Managers.
In 2012       Sullivan-Taylor was commissioned by Emirates Airline to help design their       Executive Leadership Development Programme for Dnata and Emirates senior       management.
One of the programme's sessions, titled `Organisational       Resilience in Growth', was a synthesis of Sullivan-Taylor's work in this       area.
Feedback from participants confirmed that the session impacted on       their attitudes towards risk management and dealing with uncertainties.
iii.
Promoting Dialogue between Managers and the Policy Community.
Between 2011 and 2013, Sullivan-Taylor presented her research at the       annual series of IPT conferences at Westminster, attended by UK members       from the Houses of Parliament, and senior risk managers from private       sector organisations.
The sessions highlighted best practice behaviours       and processes, and helped improve learning about business continuity at a       strategic level (corroborating source 6).
They stimulated discussion on       the need for greater collaborative working between the UK Government,       public bodies and the private sector in preparing for extreme events and       generated ideas for the creation of inter-organisational bodies designed       to protect the UK critical national infrastructure against extreme events       and threats.
As a result of these discussions, the IPT has developed a       series of further briefing sessions in Parliament and has also a link with       City Security and Resilience Networks (CSARN - a UK based business       security and resilience membership network) to further explore some of the       issues highlighted by Sullivan-Taylor's research.
iv.
Contributing to Understanding Resilience at UK Government Level.
In 2010 Sullivan-Taylor presented her research findings to the UK Cabinet       Civil Contingency Office.
The research was fundamental in informing their       approach to engaging with the private sector and developing relationships       with corporate organisations.
It also helped inform the Cabinet's approach       to protecting specific Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) sites after       the 2007 Pitt review of the UK Floods, by highlighting the need to focus       on managing business resilience around broader risks.
Within Whitehall,       the research influenced the development of various Cabinet Office       strategies on resilience.
It also contributed in part to the Government's       approach in setting up the `Critical Infrastructure Resilience Programme'       (CIRP) (March 2010), a collaboration between operators/owners of the CI       and government departments and regulators' (corroborating source 5).
In 2011 the Cabinet Office initiated a review of the Civil Contingency       Act 2004 (CCA).
Sullivan-Taylor's research informed the background       discussions of committees responsible for the creation of the ISO 22301       covering business continuity management (BCM) and also the on-going       development of British Standard BS45000 on Organisational Resilience.
In       October 2012, Sullivan-Taylor presented her full research at a meeting of       Members of Parliament including Rt Hon.
Baroness Pauline Neville-Jones       (ex-minister of State for Security and Counter-Terrorism and Chairman of       the British Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC)) along with representatives       from the Cabinet Office, the Defence Select Committee, and the Joint       Committee on National Security.
The workshop, chaired by the Rt.
Hon.
Hazel Blears MP, was designed to shape the country's security policy and       Sullivan-Taylor's research contributed to debate on the government's       future strategy and handling of the CNI in times of terrorism and extreme       events.
