     Neuberger and McCarthy's research has been recognised as being of       practical and political importance to the UK pension policy context and       has directly informed reforms to the way in which the PPF is managed.
Its       primary impact has been to provide the basis for an adjusted pension       levies structure, which was implemented over the period 2012-2013, and       which has placed the PPF on a more sustainable footing.
The research has       also improved practitioner and pension decision makers' understanding of       critical pension issues, regulations and their potential implications.
The research has engaged with by a range of key stakeholders.
There were       seven principal beneficiaries of the research:            The Pension Protection Fund       The Department of Work and Pensions       Parliamentarians in the UK House of Commons       Pension fund consultants and trustee boards advising on strategic         asset allocation decisions.
Firms contributing to the Fund.
Those dependent on pensions from schemes covered by the PPF.
UK taxpayers.
Based on their initial research on the PPF, Neuberger and McCarthy argued       that the scheme might require a future government bailout, unless its levy       structure was re-visited.
With the 2008 economic downturn and subsequent       concerted financial shocks, the PPF was exposed to a number of the issues       predicted in Neuberger and McCarthy's earlier research, with a range of       organisations calling for the state to guarantee the Fund, again as       predicted by their work.
As acknowledged experts (inter alia, Specialist Advisors to the       Parliamentary Select Committee on Work and Pensions, 2007), in 2008       Neuberger and McCarthy were commissioned by the PPF to examine how the       concept of fairness could be modelled theoretically to support them in the       development of a fairer risk based levy (RBL) more closely aligned with       market rates and preceding PPF experiences.
The emphasis on fairness was       of particular importance, given that if levies were seen as unscientific       or unfair, this might drive many employers to close their schemes, leaving       a disproportionate amount of weak schemes implicitly relying on PPF       bailouts.
More specifically, the PPF's Steering Group agreed on the       principle that a fair levy was one where contributions were commensurate       to the risks an individual scheme posed to the PPF.
The PPF's `Evaluating       the Fairness of the Risk-based Levy (including Combined Annex)' policy       document was published in conjunction with the 2010 Pension Protection       Levy consultation document, and formed the basis of the subsequent changes       to the levy system, implemented during the period 2012-2013, benchmarked       against Neuberger and McCarthy's model of a theoretically fair levy.
The       Annex Document to the PPF's New Framework Document outlines the changed       framework, and explicitly acknowledges the debt the changes owe to       Neuberger and McCarthy, noting that their research constructed a       theoretical measure to assess the cost of future pension scheme claims.
In       turn, this served as a basis for measuring fairness of alternative levy       designs, including the one ultimately adopted.
The research has had a further impact on policy through improving the       base of parliamentary understanding and knowledge of the PPF and its       consequences.
In July 2012 the House of Commons published a document for       Members of Parliament on the PPF (Thurley 2012), drawing on Neuberger and       McCarthy's original (2005) research.
It highlighted the broader range of       risks posed by the PPF to the public purse, imparting the reforms with a       measure of urgency.
