     Combining aspects of the Lean toolkit with real-time and credible       simulation in a model which is       easy to modify and allows lengthy periods of time to be simulated in a few       minutes helps clinicians       to embrace change.
In engaging with frontline nursing staff, service       improvement facilitators, senior       clinicians, and executive managers at the participating hospital trusts,       this research has made four       key impacts upon professional practice and healthcare policy:            Provided evidence to support the adoption of lean-based resources and         new practices in         NHS trusts and by health practitioners internationally.
Facilitated process improvement and organisational change through real         data simulation.
Led to development of IT resources to inform and support professional         practice.
Informed NHS policy debate within the Department of Health.
During January 2009-November 2010, simulation models were developed to       facilitate improvement       work in three of the hospital trusts with the intention of improving the       quality of care in A&amp;E,       theatres, radiology, and ophthalmology.
The models proved to be a       successful method for       conveying lean concepts and initiating discussions that led to       improvements to established       processes which senior staff were often initially reluctant to change.
For       example, at the start of a       RIE at one hospital senior doctors hotly refuted a proposed change to the       scheduling of theatre       appointments, but by the end of the session they had agreed the change.
Lean implementation was evaluated following exploratory analysis in each       of the participating       hospital trusts and the analysis was presented to executive members of       each hospital trust board.
The presentation and accompanying reports were well received and       influential.
The research has also helped to influence the professional standards of       nurses and improve their       attitude towards process improvement.
In one case study at St Helens and       Knowsley Hospitals       (SHK) ophthalmology clinic (undertaken in November 2010), nursing morale       was low owing to       workload issues and a lack of engagement in the improvement process.
Most       patients waited       around two hours past their appointment times to be seen by a doctor.
Following a computer based       simulation modelling of the ophthalmology process by the research team,       the nurses identified       possible process improvements, which immediately lifted their morale.
The       improvement facilitator       at SHK Hospitals, leading the improvement event where SimLean was       trialled, remarked "the       simulation was the turning point in the discussion".
The suggested changes       were modelled over       lunch with the resultant process immediately fed back to staff.
The model       was then used to       communicate the changes to middle managers and senior doctors and the       changes began to take       shape the following day.
Three months after the trial of SimLean, the       improvement facilitator       emailed to confirm that process efficiencies were evidenced by a 10%       reduction in patient waiting       times.
Nursing morale was also improved, and following the intervention       the Trust began to       implement changes identified by the use of the model, and invested in the       training of improvement       champions to use simulation alongside lean.
The concept of SimLean was developed as a direct result of the project's       exploratory and       experimental phases, in collaboration with the four hospital trusts, and       launched as an official       product in July 2011, via a series of practitioner events titled: `Lean       Healthcare Dissemination       Event' held at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, attracting       delegates from across       the NHS.
Since June 2011 a suite of simulation models and a facilitator       handbook has been       available for free download from our research web pages       (http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/slim).
To date, two hundred copies of the handbook have       been distributed to practitioners and academics via workshops and       conferences.
The research still       attracts interest from practitioners around the world, most recently (May       2013) from health centres       in Canada and Sweden, where recent literature suggests lean healthcare is       currently gaining       momentum.
SimLean was also adopted commercially by the software company       Simul8 in 2012 as       an addition to their suite of products.
As a vehicle for educating       practitioners of all levels, the suite       of simulation models provides a novel and tested approach to communicating       lean principles in       relation to organising work (and patients) that may at first appear       counter-intuitive to traditional       methods, such as the popular practice of `batching' patients around       appointment times.
The project also attracted the attention of the Department of Health,       where the project findings       have helped the NHS establish a robust approach to service improvements.
Professor Matthew       Cooke, an official from the Department of Health, states that "The       Department of Health [DH]       reviewed the NHS's approach to service improvement and the findings of the       SLIM project       informed this debate (via the National Clinical Director for Urgent and       Emergency Care and Jim       Easton, then Director of Transformation at the DH) that determined the way       forward for       service improvement in the new NHS".
