     This research has resulted in two main areas of impact: the first aimed       at providing better       information and ICT based resources for practitioners, and the second       involving sustained       interaction with policy-makers to provide advice and training.
Information and Resources for Careers Guidance practitioners: UK and         International     The research has benefitted practitioners through the creation of the       National Guidance Research       Forum (NGRF); a website which informs practitioners about relevant       developments in careers       research and a `one-stop shop' for high quality LMI.
Subsequently, the       Learning and Skills Agency       (England) commissioned distilled `job information' for careers       practitioners and their clients,       accessed from the National Careers Service website.
From April 2012 to       June 2013, access to the       LMI module has been paid for by 843 registrants, 158,822 downloads had       been recorded and the       STEM module had 2,541 visits.
Internationally, Bimrose and Hughes were keynotes at a Symposium on LMI       for careers practice       held in Australia in May 2013 and made significant contributions to the       subsequent `Communique'       which set out the recommendations for the sector.
This event was the first       international e-career       services symposium on state-of-the-art technologies and provided       opportunity for over 100       professionals and key stakeholders to shape the future direction of the       electronic delivery of career       services.
In addition, from 2011 to 2013, manager practitioners in the       Republic of Ireland and the       Republic of China integrated the protocol on career decision making into       careers education       programmes developed from the 5 year longitudinal research into practice       with 661 students from       Dublin Institute of Technology and the National University of Ireland and       588 students at East       China Normal University, Shanghai.
Impact was positive and its       implementation is now being       integrated into careers service practice in these HEIs.
Policy Frameworks and Advice: UK     The IER team worked with the UK Commission for Employment &amp; Skills       (UKCES); presented       evidence to Parliamentary and Assemblies formal proceedings, supplemented       by direct Ministerial       advisory support in England and Wales and close working links with       Ministers and/or senior policy-makers       in Northern Ireland and Scotland.
Bimrose was appointed as a member to the       UKCES       `expert panel' (2011 - 2012), Hughes was appointed to a Ministerial       advisory role as       Commissioner at the UK Commission for Employment &amp; Skills       (2011-present) and Barnes was       awarded a Visiting Research Fellowship (2012 &#8212; present), also at the       UKCES.
In May 2012 Hughes was appointed as Chair of the National Careers Council       in England; an       advisory body to Government (June 2013).
The Council's report to       government (`Aspirational       Nation') references IER's unique contribution to ICT and LMI developments,       emphasising the need       for new skills sets for career development practitioners, career       adaptability and resilience, and       early findings from the UKCES commissioned `LMI for All' initiative.
As a       result, the National       Careers Service forthcoming procurement plans (September 2013) will       feature ICT, LMI and career       resilience prominently to help transform careers services at both a       national and local level.
The cumulative findings from the IER research significantly contributed       to the UKCES's investment       in LMI and ICT research to the value of c&#163;645,000, in the `LMI for All'       project managed by Jenny       Bimrose, (2012 - 2015); http://www.lmiforall.org.uk/       and       http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/ier/research/lmiforall/lmi-for-all-phase2a-report.pdf.
This is       informing and supporting UK-wide careers policies and practices at       Ministerial and senior policy-maker       level, as evidenced by its incorporation within the UKCES business plan       (2012-2013) and       references to the research in Departmental policy reviews and       Parliamentary and Assembly       hearings on the design, development and impact of careers services.
Elsewhere in the UK, senior Scottish Government officials consulted with       Bimrose and Hughes on       a new careers policy strategy in 2011.
The resulting report `Career       information, advice and       guidance in Scotland &#8212; A framework for service redesign and improvement'       has been approved by       the Minister for Skills and Lifelong Learning and has recommendations for       organisations in       Scotland responsible for the planning, management and delivery of Career       IAG including Skills       Development Scotland, schools, colleges and local authorities.
IER's       contribution focussed on the       use of LMI within and across the national careers service.
As a result,       Skills Development Scotland       began exploratory talks with IER and has established a Celtic Nations LMI       Concordat.
IER delivered a training event in 2011 to build capacity in the use of       LMI in Northern Ireland.
100       careers practitioners attended, as did the Minister for Employment and       Learning who wanted to       learn more about the challenges faced by careers practitioners.
The       outcomes from this event fed       into a policy review of LMI by the careers service, a subsequent Assembly       Inquiry and       strengthened policy developments between and across the Celtic Nations,       which the Minister       endorsed as a positive development to increase the impact of careers       provision.
Policy frameworks and Advice: EU     Hughes was appointed by the European Lifelong Guidance Policy Network       (ELGPN) as an expert       consultant on quality assurance and evidence-based policy systems       development in 2011-2014.
Hughes and Tibor Bors Borb&#233;ly-Pecze (senior advisor of the Hungarian       National Employment       Service) led on the initial design and testing of a new `Quality Assurance       Framework' for       policymakers.
Hughes has continued the work in 2013 working with Jennifer       Mc Kenzie, a senior       adviser to the Irish Government.
The impact of the new framework is       demonstrated by a growing       number of countries using this to gather intelligence to inform       professionalization discourse and       future investments in careers provision.
