     The impact has been in influencing the policy debate, improving the       quality of argument and decision; and through this in improving the lives       of working women.
Connolly's work on part-time employment has formed part of the evidence       base for research and policy documents for a range of government       departments (including the Low Pay Commission (LPC), Government Equalities       Office, Department of Business, Innovation and Skills, and the Department       for Work and Pensions) and the Equalities and Human Rights Commission.
It       has been particularly influential when determining the impact on       part-timers of raising the National Minimum Wage and in encouraging the       Government to improve opportunities for flexible working.
Both have had a       positive impact on the lives of working women.
In setting the initial National Minimum Wage (NMW), the Low Pay       Commission anticipated that women would be the single greatest       beneficiaries of the NMW, the evidence suggests that women accounted for       two-thirds of the 1.9 million beneficiaries of the NMW and of these       two-thirds &#8212; 0.84 million women - were working part-time (S1 and S2).
Therefore, there was concern that any increases in the NMW would result in       either a loss of employment or reduction in hours.
Connolly and Gregory       (R1) found that hours amongst this group were not adversely affected.
This       work was first cited in the NMW LPC report in 2007 and has formed part of       the evidence base in 2009 that increases in the rate would not harm       employment of this group of workers.
Their research and conclusions have       been influential in setting the original rate (S1) and decisions to raise       the minimum wage in subsequent years (S2).
Much of the growth in employment since 1980 results from women in       part-time employment; two- thirds of working women have worked part-time       at some point in their career.
Whilst the relatively low rates of pay and       high levels of concentration in low-skilled occupations are well       documented, relatively little was known on the impact of part-time work on       women's career paths and more broadly on gender equality.
Connolly and       Gregory (R2, R3 and R4) have been widely cited and informed policy       research documents (S3 and S4) for government departments and the       Equalities Commission in assessing the impact of the growth in flexible       working.
(It should be noted that the author entry on some of these         reports is incorrectly attributed to M Connolly, a BIS         researcher working in a different area entirely and the date for R3 is         incorrectly given as 2008 rather than 2009.)
Connolly and Gregory (R2 and R3) show that a significant proportion (25%)       of women experience occupational downgrading when switching directly from       full-time into part-time employment and the incidence of downgrading is       double this when women take a break from full-time employment and later       return to part-time employment.
A number of Connolly and Gregory's       findings (R2 and R3) are quoted in Evidence box 3 on page 21 of "Flexible       working: working for families, working for business" by the Family       Friendly Working Hours Taskforce to the DWP (S3).
Downgrading when moving       to part-time work affects as many as 29% of women from professional and       corporate management jobs, and up to 40% in intermediate-level jobs.
The       findings relating to the wage penalty associated with occupational       downgrading associated with part-time employment (R3) is cited three times       times (including in the Executive Summary) of the report "Quality       part-time work" for the Government Equalities Office (S4), for example on       page 13: "There is further UK evidence that women become stuck in these       lower-level jobs, in spite of the fact that many would prefer to return to       full-time work at a later stage, and that both career and earnings are       negatively affected (e.g.
Connolly and Gregory, 2008).
In response to this       accumulating evidence, the Government made a commitment to supporting       employers to create more high-quality part-time and flexible posts."
This       was achieved by the Labour Government's agreeing to establish and run a       Quality Part-Time Work Fund.
This enabled pilot schemes to be carried out       in a range of workplaces, from large international companies to local       authorities (S4).
They enjoyed some success in providing high quality       part-time posts, despite the fund not being continued following the change       of government.
As a result of her research expertise, Connolly has presented her work to       policy makers in the UK, submitted written evidence to the "Women and Work       Commission" (S5) and was invited to be an expert member of the European       Commission Women in Science and Technology working group (S7).
Connolly's       ESRC-funded (RES-000-22-1724) work on women in science resulted in       invitations to give presentations to the British Medical Association (BMA)       and her co-authorship of a subsequent report on medical salaries for the       BMA (S8), which had direct impact upon the focus of negotiations for the       BMA not only in relation to gender differentials but also those identified       between academic and clinical salaries.
This work has been cited in a       recent influential OECD report on the gender gap (S6).
