     The impact of this research has been in supporting Western organisations       to more easily adopt a Japanese approach to strategic operations       management, called Hoshin Kanri.
The approach has been used within both       the private and public sectors and in countries including the UK, USA,       Australia, South Africa and Brazil.
As described in Section 2, the Hoshin Kanri practitioner network       established through Witcher's research enabled both sides of the       researcher-practitioner partnership to learn in an active way from the       interchange of theory and practice.
The practitioners were able to take       back information from the series of meetings to their organisations to       guide their own internal discussions on the implementation of Hoshin Kanri       (see source S1 for an example of the usefulness of Hoshin Kanri in the       context of the telecommunications industry).
Hewlett Packard is another multinational company that has found the work       by Witcher and the practitioner network that he led useful; in the words       of a former engineer/consultant at Hewlett Packard, "the research by Barry       Witcher and the practitioner network that he led were useful for the       Hoshin Kanri work I did at HP.
Specifically, his research helped us at HP       in improving the adaptation of the Hoshin Kanri concepts from Japan to the       reality of the UK.
Also, his network constituted a successful community of       practice and dissemination of research in which HP gained by raising its       visibility, profile and credibility as a champion of Hoshin Kanri" (source       S2).
The UK National Health Service (NHS) has introduced Hoshin Kanri to drive       lean working.
The Royal Bolton Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and the       North-East of England Strategic Health Authority have used the FAIR model       to formulate and deploy strategic objectives.
As part of their process,       Witcher and colleagues' concepts were used in presentations to NHS       employees to introduce and explain Hoshin Kanri.
The programmes were       judged effective by the managers concerned.
A case study on strategic       change in the NHS using Hoshin Kanri written by Witcher in 2010, summaries       and explains the approach taken (source S3, www.hoshin-kanri.co.uk).
Witcher's research outputs have also been adopted by a range of       consultancy organisations.
The FAIR model is used in training materials       and for briefings in South Africa, for example, by the South African       Auditor Training and Certification Authority, the South African Quality       Institute and the South African Financial Services Board.
The Managing       Director of the South African Quality Institute has noted: "I have found       that the collaboration between Barry Witcher of the Norwich Business       School in researching and enhancing the understanding of the Hoshin Kanri       methodology used at Nissan has been extremely useful in expanding this       methodology into other sectors outside of the Japanese automotive       industry.
The ultimate accolade came from a Japanese delegate at an       international conference presentation when he informed me that it was very       rare for a non-Japanese to really understand the Japanese Hoshin Kanri       methodology.
Barry had been able to take my basic practical experiences       with the subject matter and expand on these through his intensive research       into this field" (S4).
In Australia, the research is an essential source of reference for the       KPI Institute (S5) and in Brazil for the consultancy firm Taktica (S6).
Furthermore, the work is used in a training document developed by a       consultant at Deloitte Consulting for the SAP Developer's Network (S7).
A       US consultancy organisation called Total Quality Engineering Inc have       developed a bibliography of Hoshin Kanri references, which reference 12 of       Witcher and colleagues' publications in this resource (S8).
The Global       Design Organisation is a not-for-profit world-wide professional       association of academics, business users, and consultants practicing the       application of Requisite Organization concepts and interested in       science-based management to improve organizational effectiveness.
They       make reference to 8 of Witcher's Hoshin Kanri publications in their       annotated bibliography for members (S9).
Yui (2011) wrote a       practitioner-focused book in Japanese, A Historical Review of TQM in       Japanese, US and UK Companies (published by Chuou Kaizaisha, Tokyo), that       features a chapter on UEA's Hoshin Kanri work.
