     The research has been widely recognised as not only having impacts on the       health and welfare of patients but also resulting in economic benefits for       healthcare providers and the industry supplier of dialysis filters.
Health outcomes: The research and trials demonstrated that HCO       dialysis results in greater quantities of free light chains being removed       from patients, which in turn improves the rates of renal recovery in       myeloma patients with kidney failure.
[text removed for publication]     Quality of life: The outcomes of the research have clear impacts       in terms of the well-being of the patients and their ability to lead more       normal lives, without the need for dialysis.
Normal dialysis takes 4-5       hours per session 3-4 times per week, potentially throughout the patients'       lifetime.
The new treatment, although requiring longer sessions (up to 12       hours daily for 3 weeks in total), significantly reduces the overall       treatment time [7] clearly having an impact on the quality of life of       patients with multiple myeloma in terms of treatment but also life       expectancy.
Reach: In 2012, there were over 59,000 new incidences of multiple       myeloma in the US, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK alone       (approximately 0.8% of all cancers worldwide); 8% of these patients have       severe kidney failure and will particularly benefit from this new       treatment.
The actual number of patients being treated in these 7       countries is higher due to the cumulative prevalence of multiple myeloma.
On the basis of the increases over the last 5 years, it is estimated that       the number of new incidences of multiple myeloma will increase by 47% by       2030 [8].
Therefore, the modelling work from Dr Chappell and colleagues in       Warwick, which was instrumental in the optimisation of kidney dialysis for       multiple myeloma patients, will have an increasing impact on patients with       multiple myeloma.
'[text removed for publication]' The long-term outcomes for these patients       is better than earlier literature suggests and two multicentre randomised       controlled clinical trials (in the UK and Germany [10b]) are almost       complete; these will signify the benefits when new literature is published       [7].
Reduced treatment costs: Because treated patients regain kidney       function and are no longer dialysis dependent, the treatment is expected       to have a significant economic impact on the NHS.
The NHS treats       approximately 4,500-4,800 patients with multiple myeloma every year (there       are 3,000-3,500 new cases per year in the UK) of which 8% will require       dialysis [9a]; around half of these patients are suitable for this new       treatment.
Dialysis costs the NHS &#163;30-40k per year per patient [9b].
This       new treatment will reduce the dialysis costs to the NHS for 85% of       multiple myeloma patients to approximately &#163;7,500-10,000 per patient       equivalent to a saving of &#163;3.8 million per year for the NHS alone [7].
Commercial and economic impacts:     [text removed for publication]     [text removed for publication]     Public awareness and interest: Public awareness of the success of       the new treatment is extending across the world from the UK to Australia       and New Zealand as well as to the US.
"Patients advocates (family etc) are       finding the research on the web and are asking for it for their family       members" [7].
Examples: The Myeloma Beacon; Kidney Friends; Helen Diller       Family Comprehensive Cancer Center; International Myeloma Foundation;       Living with Multiple Lyeloma [14].
Dr John Hattersley (former PhD student       (Section 2), is now Senior Research Fellow, Human Metabolic Research Unit,       University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust.
Policy: If the results of the wider international trials, expected       January 2014, are as positive as the earlier research, then there is       likely to be a change in policy in several countries in relation to the       treatment of multiple myeloma patients who also suffer from kidney       malfunction or failure.
The Health Policy Advisory Committee on Technology       for Australia and New Zealand have produced a Technology Brief on the new       procedure concluding it is effective and are awaiting further trial       results [15].
It is expected that the full impact in clinical terms will       develop over the next four to five years with the increase in patients       (multiple myeloma and other conditions) being treated and benefiting from       this change in treatment.
