     The underpinning research and the completion of Eurocode 4 have had       significant impact through the mandatory application as policy by the EC       and all the EU member countries with changes to legislation, regulations       and guidelines.
The impact from policy is also demonstrated through the       effect and benefits to practitioners and professionals in the construction       industry.
Policy:     Civil engineering structures are designed by chartered engineers working       for a client, using methods that must ensure the functionality, safety and       durability of the structure.
The Eurocodes are the only set of design       rules for publicly-funded structures that satisfy national building       regulations (and similar client-based rules for structures such as road       and rail bridges) in all countries of the EU and EFTA.
There are ten       Eurocodes (over 3000 pages in total).
Johnson and Anderson had prime       responsibility for the drafting of Eurocode 4 (save for its section on       fire resistance).
The Eurocodes are the first set of design rules       for civil engineering structures to achieve three-way harmonisation:       across types of structure (such as buildings, bridges, towers, masts,       foundations); among many nations; and across a range of structural       materials (such as steel, concrete, timber, light alloys and soils).
Reach and economic impacts on the EU:     Some of the main benefits of the Eurocodes (detailed on the EU DG       `Enterprise and Industry' website [8]) are more uniform levels of building       safety across Europe; a common understanding of the design of structures       between owners, operators, users, designers, contractors and manufacturers       of construction products; and a common and transparent basis for fair       competition in the European construction market.
The EC also states [8]       four economic impacts, these include the fact that firms, particularly       SMEs, have improved access to 27 countries and 500 million consumers in       Europe.
A report published by the EC also highlights the impact, providing       examples of the application of Eurocode 4 such as the high-speed rail line       in Spain [9] (this source cites work by Johnson).
The Head of Bridge Design and Technology for consultancy Atkins is       responsible for the technical leadership of their 650 bridge engineers       around the world.
He comments [10] that the significant standard of the       Eurocodes has reached further than just EU public constructions:       "Eurocodes have given us a common language and common rules that we didn't       have before, covering: all our European operations (and Middle East, Hong       Kong, India); and the interface between civil engineering and       building...allowed us to develop better shared training and software,       mobility of staff...the net effect is some efficiency in delivery".
This       efficiency of working and the ease of working across Europe is also       corroborated by consulting engineers Arup [11] "...even in countries where       we do not have a presence".
Examples:     The timescale of the development of Eurocodes is long (it took over 30       years to develop them).
Design and construction takes several years, so       few structures designed to Eurocodes have been completed by 2013.
However,       the draft Eurocodes influenced the basis of structural design of a few       international projects in the 1990s.
Examples are the bridge over the       &#216;resund between Denmark and Sweden (2000), and a novel structure for the       Millennium Tower in Vienna (2000).
Further examples of the direct application and impact of Eurocode 4 are       demonstrated by the company Acciona, a leader in infrastructure, who       consulted on project design for the bridges in the Spanish high speed rail       system.
Acciona's Director of Steel Structures [12] (and a member of the       committee for the Spanish national standards) corroborates the       significance of Johnson's work on the Eurocodes and also how Spain       incorporated early versions of Eurocode 4 (prior to the mandatory 2010       incorporation) into many projects.
He highlighted eleven, including the       construction of the Barcelona Design Centre in 2011, the refurbishment of       the National Archaelogical Museum in Madrid in 2009 and the building of       many bridges and viaducts (from 2006 to 2012).
He states [12]: "Designs       were also carried out in Brazil and Sweden, for road and railway bridges,       and all of them are based on Eurocodes 4 clauses.
The content of Eurocodes       4 means a guaranteed design for all of the countries in which the       composite steel and concrete construction is not developed as in European       countries".
Significance:     Emeritus Professor, former Head of the Department of Civil and       Environmental Engineering at Imperial College, who was for more than 10       years chairman of the BSI Committee responsible for BS5950 and for UK       input into EC3, is a past chairman of IABSE's technical committee       responsible for oversight of all the Association's technical activities       and a past Deputy Chairman of the Council of the Steel Construction       Institute [13] supports the importance and impact of Warwick's research.
He writes the introduction of Eurocodes "represents the largest and most       significant change ever presented to UK structural designers...The       monetary value is huge; construction typically accounts for about 10% of       GDP in developed countries.
The number of engineers affected is huge; the       UK has tens of thousands of engineers engaged on structural works...There       is no doubt that in the specific area of composite construction the       contribution by Warwick at both the fundamental level of providing the       essential understanding of behaviour and in then translating that into       workable design procedures (a task that I regard as every bit as       intellectually challenging as conducting the original research) is the       single most substantial of all the contributing parties".
Professional and practitioner impacts:     Early impacts on the mandatory adoption of Eurocodes affected the       software industry; the training of engineers by the leading structural       consultants, the publishers of explanatory material [1, 6], and experts       worldwide tasked with revising their national codes.
In response to the       demand for understanding the application, the British Standards       Institution (BSI) set up `Eurocodes Plus' a software/interactive tool       utilised by consultants and structural engineers [14].
The BSI also       provides courses and training to support the UK industry.
The use of Eurocodes also involves radical changes in the methods of       analysis and design used for major projects by structural engineers, who       needed new software.
The company Bestech, a leading UK supplier of       software for the design and code verification of bridges, has incorporated       all of the Eurocodes into their products.
Its Director specifically quotes       the significance of research at Warwick's School of Engineering and the       role of Johnson and Anderson in disseminating this research to       practitioners and software developers supporting the industry [15].The       Eurocodes are influencing national standards/codes in many countries.
During the REF period Johnson and Anderson have been invited to run       courses on Eurocode 4 for research staff and consultants in Australia,       South Africa, Canada, Malaysia, Singapore, Iceland, Israel, Qatar and the       USA.
They have also run lectures and been invited to give conference       presentations in other countries.
Australia, South Africa and Canada are       studying the Eurocodes as the potential basis for revision of their       national codes.
Many smaller countries that use British Standards are now       adopting the Eurocodes.
