     Theme 1 has had the following impact:     (i) Influencing UK Government public-private partnerships on climate         finance.
The Investment Grade Policy &amp; Projects report (Jones       &amp; Ward, 2012) was published in May 2012 by the UK Department for       Energy and Climate Change (DECC).
It highlights how best to maximise the       effectiveness of international public climate finance to increase private       sector investment in climate change solutions in the developing world.
The       main beneficiary is the UK Government, with indirect impact on the private       sector.
This has been and is now used to influence ministerial discussions       with developing country partners and is helping to inform the structure of       the UK International Climate Finance (&#163;2.9 billion).
In particular the       document has been used in bilateral negotiations with India and Kenya       under the Capital Markets Climate Initiative (CMCI) by Greg Barker,       Minister for Climate Change.
The work continues to have significant impact       on government.
For example, in July 2013 Aled Jones won a tender based on       this research, with Vivid Economics, to advise on a pilot phase of a new       finance vehicle (an international arm of the Green Investment Bank) as       part of the UK International Climate Fund.
The aim of this pilot is to       invest &#163;200 million of UK development aid over the next 2-3 years.
(ii) Influencing the work of Club de Madrid.
Aled Jones was       invited to be a President Clinton distinguished lecturer and give a       keynote address in Little Rock, Arkansas (December 2012) to Club de       Madrid.
The Club de Madrid is a membership organization of ex-Presidents       and Heads of State, chaired by President Clinton, who `work to         strengthen democratic institutions and to offer advice on the resolution         of political conflicts in order to enhance development and improve the         lives of those most in need'.
As a result of this engagement the       Little Rock Accord was signed on 18th December 2012 by Club de       Madrid which commits them to convene a group of 12 former heads of state       led by President Clinton to help increase the level of engagement on       climate change investment solutions in the developing world.
The main       beneficiaries are therefore developing country governments through Club de       Madrid.
The Little Rock Accord sets out a work plan for 2013-2015 and       brings in the network of the P80 Group Foundation which includes the World       Bank, US State Department, Asia Development Bank, Africa Development Bank,       International Finance Corporate, US AID, Overseas Private Investment       Corporation and others.
Theme 2 has had the following impact:     (iii) Formation of new international professional investment groups         on resource risks.
Aled Jones, Candice Howarth and Irene Monasterolo       (with external partners Callund Consulting and Agulhas) have worked with       the UK Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and Lloyds of London to develop       a set of scenarios and a financial model to understand the implications of       resource limits and climate change on investment returns in particular       future pension returns.
This led to a major report published in January       2013 (Jones et al 2013) at an event chaired by Jo Confino, Executive       Editor, Guardian, which has been widely covered in the press including the       Guardian (18/1/13), New Scientist (26/1/13) and Pensions         Insight (1/2/13) (see section 5).
The main beneficiary is the UK       actuarial professional body.
The research led to several invited keynote       presentations including to the International Association of Actuaries (Los       Angeles, May 2012), the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and       Development ( Paris, October 2012), the Asia Forum on Global Government       (New Delhi, India, November 2012), the US Society of Actuaries (Chicago,       December 2012), the UN Global Compact ( Geneva, January 2013), and the       Agricultural Investment Summit (August 2013) and invited contributions to       the HRH Prince of Wales sustainable land management work programme (March       2013).
The impact includes the formation of new national and international       groups which consider resource risk and contribute to further data       gathering and modeling.
For example, the UK Institute and Faculty of       Actuaries have created a Board (Nick Silver, Visiting Fellow of the GSI,       sits on the Board) to report into their Council to take forward the work       highlighted as necessary in the report.
The Board is looking at including       the recommendations from the report in the professional body's Actuarial       Code.
The US Society of Actuaries have set up a resource group to gather       case studies.
The GSI co-hosted a workshop in Sweden, in June 2013, with       Columbia University and the University of Wisconsin, to build on the       actuary report and engage with private and public sector players,       particularly insurance companies, pension funds and government agencies,       in understanding strategic risk in global food systems.
In October 2013       this work was shortlisted as a finalist of the Lloyds of London Science of       Risk awards which awards prizes for the most impactful academic research.
(iv) Challenging conventional thinking on credit risk.
Candice       Howarth and Aled Jones have worked with Standard &amp; Poor's (S&amp;P)       and Trucost to publish an analysis of the possible investment risk in       water and energy utilities in the East of England.
The main beneficiary is       the credit rating agency S&amp;P and secondly water companies in the East       of England.
This has already, and continues to, impact the long term       thinking of investment credit risk in this sector as well as supported the       expansion of this area within the S&amp;P private sector risk team with       further work planned across the UK and internationally.
Engagement with       the water companies in the East of England is ongoing and has led to       further research work and partnerships across the sector to help develop       responses to future water risk (for example, a European framework project       - WE@EU - exploring water efficiency in the urban environment started in       July 2013).
This research was widely covered in the press including       Reuters (1/3/12), ITV1 Anglia (5/3/12) and BBC Radio (2/3/12).
