     Owing to the complexities in the survival of early printed books and       manuscripts, library catalogues and databases are often incomplete.
By       their nature, such catalogues and databases often lack fuller information.
The Vernacular Aristotelianism project has improved the quality of       contextual information available on catalogue references of specific       collections, meta-catalogues and electronic resources.
Furthermore, both       it and the broader `Reading Publics' research have been used to engage       with secondary school students and adult learners in the community.
These       engagements have increased knowledge about the relationship between the       Latin and vernacular intellectual traditions of the Renaissance and       stimulated greater interest in the period.
Improving library catalogues and electronic databases       The research has had substantial impact on the preservation, presentation       and understanding of Renaissance holdings at libraries around the world.
The findings have been shared with librarians responsible for collections       of Italian-language manuscripts and early printed books (c.1400-c.1650)       in the UK (British Library and the John Rylands Library, Manchester); the       USA (University of Pennsylvania Library; the Newberry Library, Chicago;       Rare Book and Manuscript Library, University of Columbia; and the Harry       Ransom Research Center, Austin, Texas); and across Europe (Vatican       Library; Paris BNF; Munich BSB; and Bologna BU).
Engagement with       librarians was achieved through individual consultations with project team       members, seminars and workshops.
As a result of our research, librarians at Columbia, Pennsylvania, John       Rylands (Manchester), and the Library at the National Academy of the       Lincei (Rome) have gained a better understanding of materials in their       collections and created more accurate and detailed catalogue entries.
For       example, the Rare Books and Manuscript library at the University of       Pennsylvania houses more than 1800 manuscripts from the fifteenth to       eighteenth centuries as well as many printed books and manuscript       commentaries on Aristotle.
Research from the AHRC project fed directly       into the work of the Assistant Curator of Manuscripts, who described how       the research has resulted in `a much better understanding of our       Aristotelian manuscripts in Italian', and that `Dr Refini identified three       manuscripts that were versions of the same text by a single author, who,       until now, received no attribution in our catalogue.
He also discovered       the second half of one of the manuscripts, separated long ago and now at       Yale University.
We have improved the records for all three manuscripts by       incorporating Dr Refini's research.
Their relationship to our Aristotle       collection overall and to each other is now much clearer'.
Refini's role       in this identification is credited on the catalogue entry.
Similarly, the       Columbia University Library has incorporated information from the Vernacular         Arisotelianism project into its catalogue.
At the National Academy       of the Lincei in Rome, the Head Librarian, Dr. Marco Guardo, commented       that `the study of medieval and Renaissance manuscripts owned by his       library and now included in the VARI database has brought to light several       important features of our collections', and that collaboration with the Vernacular         Aristotelianism project `allows ongoing enrichment of our knowledge       of the library holdings of the Academy.
In particular, the results of the       studies carried out by colleagues at Warwick on our manuscripts have       contributed to enriching the reference materials available not only to       other scholars, but, more generally, to all users of the library [...] the       database Vernacular Aristotelianism in Renaissance Italy       represents an exemplary model of productive exchange between researchers       and librarians and curators of books'.
Our research has also informed the most important meta-catalogue of       sixteenth-century books printed in Italy, EDIT16.
Users of this       fundamental tool, chiefly librarians and bibliographers, are linked       directly to our database when viewing the catalogue entry for a specific       edition, such as the 1550 commentary on Ethics by Segni or the       1551 translation of Physics by Brucioli.
Since our database       comprises roughly 250 editions, EDIT16 is circulating a considerable body       of knowledge and helping scholars, librarians, and the general public       appreciate the vibrant presence of the vernacular philosophical tradition       in the sixteenth century.
The Director of EDIT16, Rosaria Maria Servello,       has stated that the detailed information and bibliographical richness of       the database on Vernacular Aristotelianism in Renaissance Italy       `offers new references and opportunities for studying Aristotelian and       pseudo-Aristotelian texts.
Vernacular Aristotelianism is       particularly interesting for EDIT16 for its attention to textual and       paratexual features, the individuals involved and the relations with the       Latin tradition'.
Our database is also listed as a reference tool by       EDIT16.
Collaborating with the British Library and enhancing information         available in databases       A workshop held on 5 July 2013 at the British Library brought together       librarians from the Newberry Library, the British Library, the London       Library, the Bodleian Library (Oxford), the Incunabula Project at       Cambridge University Library, and directors of major cataloguing projects,       including the Consortium of European Research Libraries (CERL), EDIT16,       and the Universal Short Title Catalogue (St Andrews).
The workshop, which       provided a forum for discussion between academic researchers,       bibliographers and librarians, included a demonstration of the project's       census database and a roundtable discussion of its value for supplementing       existing catalogues.
Cataloguers were made aware, for instance, of how       crucial it is that catalogue entries list correctly the language in which       a work is written, enabling language-specific searches, and allowing users       gain a comprehensive picture of how knowledge was being circulated.
Both       the content and the structure of the Vernacular Aristotelianism       database have proved valuable to librarians managing contemporaneous       collections.
Laura Nuvoloni, Incubula cataloguer at Cambridge University       Library, commented that the workshop `provided a welcome opportunity to       ... learn about new online cumulative resources and projects that will       help the retrieval and integration of information relating to manuscript       and rare book collections ... [and] highlighted the importance of       databases such as the one on Vernacular Aristotelianism in Renaissance         Italy that supplements bibliographical catalogues in providing       essential information relating to the texts, their authors and the social       and cultural context in which they were created'.
Highlights of the research were made publicly available online through       the British Library's Facebook albums which showcase important manuscripts       or images.
Digitised images of 22 manuscripts and printed works associated       with vernacular philosophical writing are on display along with contextual       information to promote understanding of Renaissance reading cultures.
In       less than one month, the album had 700 likes, 271 shares and numerous       comments (e.g.
`amazing and thought provoking', `genius', and a `national       treasure').
Enriching secondary education and enhancing knowledge of cultural         heritage in adult learners       The research has formed the basis for new educational initiatives for       adult learners.
In 2012-13 Lines led two community courses on the Italian       Renaissance, with other members of the Italian Department: Refini,       Vanhaelen and Del Soldato.
The courses were delivered in the university's       local area: the first in Kenilworth, Warwickshire (20 weeks, 17       participants) and the second in Stratford-upon-Avon (8 weeks, 14       participants).
They were aimed at adult learners and the age range of       participants was 45 to 85.
The research on reading publics in the Vernacular         Aristotelianism project strongly informed the structure and content       of the courses, where emphasis was placed on the relationship between       Latin and the vernacular, the contexts of philosophical discussion, and       the development of an educated public in Renaissance Italy.
In course       feedback, participants demonstrated a greater understanding of the period,       and of the ways its intellectual traditions were adopted and interpreted       (60% of respondents).
For many participants it was their first exposure to       the subject and stimulated their interest in further study (`I plan to       review the material from the course and to read around the subject some       more to get a better perspective'; `The course awoke in me a latent       passion for the subject that I had previously assumed was merely a passing       interest.').
Additional presentations to adult learners were made to       University of the Third Age groups in the local area (Stratford-upon-Avon       twice, Coventry, Kenilworth, and the Dene Valley) to audiences of 80+ in       September 2012.
Also in September 2012, project members visited two secondary schools in       Florence (Liceo Classico Machiavelli and Liceo Scientifico         Castelnuovo).
These visits introduced the research and initial       findings, and provided a demonstration of the database.
More than 100       students (aged 16-18) attended each presentation.
In workshop feedback,       students showed increased knowledge about Renaissance philosophy (`the       importance of Aristotelian philosophy in the Renaissance'); the importance       of language (`Some people thought that the sciences could be translated       into the vernacular, but others thought that this wasn't possible without       devaluing the sciences'); and the re-use of classical imagery (`the       presence and importance of Classical culture throughout the ages').
