     The publication of Cullell's monograph sparked controversy in Spain,       where studies of the poes&#237;a         de la experiencia trend that had focussed on the poetic production       of the 1980s had tended to       promote uncritically a wide range of politically celebrated work.
Her book       swiftly attracted fierce       criticism in the press, in newspapers such as La           Nueva Espa&#241;a.
The book's publisher, Devenir,       decided to capitalise on the obvious literary polemics of Cullell's       counter-argument, rooted in her       in-depth research, about the nature and quality of this 1980s poetry.
It       therefore actively       disseminated Cullell's monograph and her findings as widely as possible.
On that platform, Cullell's       research and the associated public events rekindled important debates in       contemporary Spanish       literature, and made them more accessible to non-academic audiences (for       example, readers of       poetry, visitors to museums and other cultural institutions).
Her research       also inspired cultural       institutions that do not usually participate in literary activities - such       as the Ra del Rey arts centre - to       host public events.
Devenir organised a series of activities, held between 13 April and 2       June 2011, in an initiative to       bring Spanish contemporary poetry closer to the general public through       poetry readings,       roundtable discussions, performances and talks.
These activities brought       together poets (including       Bego&#241;a Regueiro, Ricardo Garc&#237;a, Carmen Herrero, and Roc&#237;o Santiesteban)       and scholars from       both Spain and abroad (Diana Cullell, University of Liverpool; Germ&#225;n       Labrador, Princeton       University; Melci&#243;n Mateu, New York University; Jorge Urrutia, Universidad       Carlos III, Madrid; Jos&#233;       Mar&#237;a Mic&#243;, Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona).
The events took place in       city-centre venues       that attract high numbers of visitors and customers, including the Ateneu       Barcelon&#232;s in Barcelona,       and, in Madrid, the Centro Cultural Blanquerna, the Ra del Rey arts       centre, the Casa del Libro, and       the &#193;mbito Cultural in the department store El Corte Ingl&#233;s. These events       were all extremely well       attended.
The events held in the Ra del Rey arts centre and the Ateneu       Barcelon&#232;s proved       particularly popular, attracting audiences of 45 or more.
Some of the       events were also broadcast       live over the internet.
Cullell's work has not only reached wider audiences, bringing poetry       closer to the general public.
It       has also contributed to transforming practices for different poets and       poetic groups, leading to new       performances in museums and poetry publications.
An example of this is the       literary group Otras       palabras &#8212; led by Bego&#241;a Regueiro &#8212; which developed a high profile in tertulias       (cultural salons)       and poetry performances around Madrid, following their performance in the       Ra del Rey arts centre       as part of the series of events linked with Cullell's book.
This activity       also led to the publication of       Regueiro's new book, Diosas de barro (2012).
Regueiro had       previously only published one book of       poetry.
Her involvement in the impact activities surrounding Cullell's       book drew the attention of       publishing houses and readers to her own work and she was subsequently       invited to publish       Diosas de barro.
This was launched in Madrid and Seville, and was       very well received.
Regueiro       has since been asked to publish her next poetry book with Amargord and       Playa de Akaba, two       important poetry publishing houses in Spain.
A further example of the       impact of Cullell's work on       poets is that, in the course of one of the public events, the poet Maria       Antonia Ortega said that, for       the first time, she had been given a voice.
Additionally, Devenir, the       publisher, which experienced       an increase of 35% in hits to its website, also recognised the impact of       the events.
The chief editor       wrote: `This series of events, in my opinion, had a great and intense       impact.
You clearly settled the       issues - for anyone who was willing to understand the truth [about the       poetic trend].
In my view, it       was all extremely positive, and I think we managed to reach a wide and       varied audience.'
In tandem with the events organised by Devenir, Cullell was invited to       talk about Spanish       contemporary poetry at the `Tertulia Literaria Hispanoamericana Rafael       Montesinos', Colegio       Mayor Nuestra Se&#241;ora de Guadalupe, Madrid (12 April 2011) and to talk on       new technologies and       poetry at the literary cafe `Libertad 8', Madrid (2 February 2012).
Alongside its academic reception, Cullell's book was reviewed in the       Spanish newspaper La           Nueva           Espa&#241;a (referred to above) and in the online blog La         Mirada actual.
Cullell was also interviewed for       the Spanish online newspaper SolidaridadDigital.
These activities have also raised Cullell's public profile more locally.
Since 2010 Cullell has       organised an annual Writer in Residence event in Liverpool, featuring       contemporary Spanish       authors and including public events.
For example, in March 2012 and March       2013 public readings       by Spanish, Catalan and Basque poets (August Bover, Kirmen Uribe, Virginia       Cant&#243;, and Itxaso       Paya) at the city's Bluecoat Centre attracted local audiences of some 40       people.
This series of       events is on-going, and will see Cullell take a lead in departmental KE       and impact activities.
In the       framework of her most recent research project (on xarnego poetry -       Catalan poetry written in       Spanish by Spanish immigrants into Catalonia or their descendants), she       will organise a workshop       on Translating Cultures, to be held at the Instituto Cervantes in       Manchester in mid- to late 2014.
This event will be free and open to the general public.
She will also       organise a workshop-linked       public poetry reading, to be held at the Liverpool Bluecoat Centre and she       will collaborate with the       Instituto Cervantes in the Manchester Literary Festival in October 2014,       writing reviews and       organizing a xarnego poetry session.
