     Rosenhaft's research on non-Jewish Holocaust victims has enhanced       individuals' capacity to       engage positively with issues of racism, with potential impacts for       community relations.
In 2009,       she was approached by the organiser of the Tackling Racism &#8212; Promoting       Diversity Group (TRG),       a city-wide trade-union supported initiative.
She worked with TRG until       autumn 2011, using her       research materials in weekly workshops with 10-15 secondary-school pupils,       preparing them for       study visits to Auschwitz, and facilitating student-led sessions at two       city-wide study days (50       participants on each occasion).
An undergraduate volunteer whom Rosenhaft       invited to lead some       workshops observed changes in the participants.
She commented that: `The       TRG expanded the       young people's understanding of gypsies [...] and broke down the negative       stereotypes       surrounding them that a number of the group had before the session.'
The       project had an impact       on her, too: it `opened my eyes and sparked my interest in human rights',       leading to postgraduate       fieldwork in international development.
Rosenhaft undertook structured       interviews with TRG       participants to assess the relevance of Holocaust education for ethnic       minority youths, and these       also revealed clear shifts in perception.
The workshops were `better than       school', and the study       involved was `important [...] because it makes you understand'; `looking       at other victims made it       more understandable'.
An analysis of the interviews was presented to an       international audience of       about a hundred public history professionals at the October 2011       conference of the Federation of       International Human Rights Museums (3,900 unique visitors to the       conference website), thereby       feeding the outcomes of public engagement into research-based reflections       on practice.
Rosenhaft's TRG work featured as a case study in the AHRC's         2011 report on knowledge exchange in the Arts and Humanities.
Rosenhaft's work with the University Library's Gypsy collections, for       which she acquired several       hundred photographs in 2000, has supported private and public memory in       Germany.
Surviving       members of the families of the photographs' subjects continue to take       pleasure in images which       she was able to send them.
Consultations with the Director of the Saxony       Anhalt Monuments       Commission and the Mayor of Dessau-Ro&#223;lau that began in the early phases       of the project fed into       continuing memorial work in the region.
Rosenhaft's research findings were       cited by the mayor at a       February 2013 memorial event.
Her interview         with Radio Corax (Halle) has received over 3000 hits       since 2009.
She has supported the Association for Roma and Sinti History       and Culture in Lower       Saxony with exhibition material.
In the UK she has widened the horizons of       educators, speaking by       invitation on the Gypsy Holocaust at the Imperial War Museum North in 2010       and at a Holocaust       Educational Trust (HET) study day in 2011 (audiences of about 50 people at       each).
HET       participants commented to the organisers that `they now want to go away       and learn more about the       experience of Roma and Sinti'.
A podcast on the HET website has been       downloaded twenty times       since June 2011 (additional downloads direct through iTunes cannot be       quantified).
A new initiative       began with a Council of Europe-funded workshop held at the University       Library in June 2013.
Designed to build capacity by giving six young scholars of Roma origin the       opportunity to work with       sources in Romani history, the workshop attracted PGRs and activists from       the UK and Europe.
Participants described it as `very instructive' and `an inspiration'.
Rosenhaft's research on black history has furthered understanding of and       reflection on the history       of racism and colonialism.
Her talk on Blacks under Nazism at the German       Historical Institute       London (March 2012) attracted nearly a hundred people, the largest and       most diverse audience       ever recorded for a lecture there.
She subsequently spoke at the Wiener       Library in the context of       Black History Month.
One listener commented: `I walked away feeling I had       really benefited from       that talk, and that not attending would have done me a great disservice.'
In May 2013, she       addressed public meetings organised by Baptist congregations in       Berlin-Friedrichshain and       Eberswalde (about eighty attendees altogether).
Those communities had       hosted Africans visiting       Germany between 1886 and 1914 (the subject of the lectures), and       Eberswalde is also notorious       for a 1989 racist murder.
Both discussions activated family memories of       the Baptists' African       mission and reflections on its ethical implications, as well as on more       recent local histories of       Black-White relations.
The Berlin hosts commented on a `successful       evening' which participants       continued `to discuss intensively for a long time'.
The Eberswalde City       Museum's Director invited       Rosenhaft to contribute to an exhibition, and expressed interest in       collaborating on a project       excavating the longer history of African-German relations there.
