     Writing in the Times (July 2011), James Fox cited Romantic         Moderns as `one of the first signs' that `Modern British art is       back'.
The book provided an intellectual framework for many exhibitions of       British art staged in 2011-13, and in some cases directly influenced the       curators.
Introducing an evening devoted to Graham Sutherland, Michael       Stanley, Director of Modern Art Oxford, said that `Alexandra Harris has       been one of the main forces behind the surge of interest in British art       which has led to the exhibition of Sutherland in Oxford and Tate's       landmark show Picasso and Modern British Art in London'.
Considering its revaluation of British art, writer Martin Gayford       identified Romantic Moderns as a powerful intervention in       political debate about national identity: `it's a book that makes you       think freshly about the perennially puzzling questions of what it means to       be British' (Sunday Telegraph).
Harris has taken an energetic role in furthering this new interest in art       and national culture: she has written catalogue essays; lectured regularly       in galleries; worked with Sotheby's to promote modern British collections.
Evidence of her sustained and high-profile influence came in Spring 2012       when the Royal Academy proposed that she stage an exhibition at Burlington       House.
Practising artists, including Turner Prize-shortlisted George Shaw, have       cited Harris's research as the prompt for new engagement with the history       of British painting.
The painter Stephen Taylor wrote that RM gave       him `hope that all was not lost for British art' (correspondence, 2012),       and turned increasingly from abstraction to locality.
Romantic Moderns       gave draughtsman and print- maker Jonathan Newdick an expanded context for       his work on vernacular buildings, and in return Harris provided a preface       for Newdick's 2012 book Out of Time.
The writer Richard Mabey       (frequently hailed as `the greatest living naturalist') wrote that Romantic         Moderns had been `tremendously helpful to [him] personally' in       writing about the twentieth-century relationship between literature and       land.
Broader public interest in Harris's work is evidenced by the sales       figures for her books.
Romantic Moderns sold 16,800 in the       assessment period; Public Lending Right figures show 2750 public library       loans in 2012.
Virginia Woolf sold 9,000 copies in the assessment       period.
Harris has used the internet to make her work widely available.
Extracts       from Romantic Moderns are featured on her website,       along with links to her events diary, journalism and media work.
Traffic       has been high, with a monthly average of c.1300 visits (see section 5).
Both books have attracted extensive media coverage, bringing the       subject-matter to a diverse audience.
Romantic Moderns was       reviewed in all the national broadsheets, many foreign newspapers, a range       of magazines from the Spectator to Country Life to Tribune,       and numerous local papers.
It was featured on BBC 2's Review Show       (average audience 376,000), and on national and local radio stations with       varying audience demographics from Radio 3 to Five Live.
Media discussion       of the Guardian First Book Award focused on the potential for       academic research to inspire general audiences, responding to Claire       Armitstead's claim that `Harris's book is a reminder of how important       higher education is to literature' (Guardian, 2011).
Romantic Moderns and its offshoots have brought diverse audiences       to British art and to writers such as Elizabeth Bowen and Henry Green.
Reviewers have noted Harris's balance of rigour and accessibility:       `Lesser-known aspects of Woolf's character &#8212; such as her humour, tenacity,       and flair for friendship &#8212; are brought movingly to the fore in this crisp,       insightful, and mercifully down-to- earth literary biography' (Telegraph).
The Daily Mail ran a double spread encouraging its readers       (circulation c.2,050,000) to try Woolf: `by the final page Harris has made       you desperate to tackle the novels'.
At a `School of Life' workshop (July       2013), Harris led an audience through a structured `menu' of conversation       topics, inviting participants (most of whom had no literary background) to       use Woolf's ideas in thinking about place and tradition in their own       lives.
Harris has brought scholarship to the high street by       collaborating with Toast womenswear and furnishings retailer to       explore literary traditions behind the styling of fashion collections.
Harris has given 45 public lectures in the assessment period.
These have ranged from the major literary festivals (Hay, Cheltenham,       Oxford, Edinburgh) to small events in village halls (as at Wantage and       Malmesbury).
Harris has also led sessions with specialised groups,       such as the Virginia Woolf Society, The Betjeman Society, and The T.S.
Eliot Society.
In this way she has engaged with a total of c.10,000       members of the public, many of whom have written to say that they are       reading more widely as a direct result of Harris's lectures.
Many of the       lectures included specially-prepared material on the place in which the       lecture was being given, making a specific bond between the body of       research presented and the local knowledge of the audience.
Harris's research and impact has primarily been aimed at British       audiences, but she has nonetheless achieved international reach.
Translation rights for VW have been sold in Croatia and the Czech       Republic, with much interest from elsewhere, especially Spain and South       America.
In North America press coverage has been enthusiastic and the       academic response warm (eg.
in the invitation to give a plenary address in       Canada).
International interest in Romantic Moderns has been       especially exciting because British art has a lamentably low profile       abroad.
Features in the foreign press (eg.
Australian Book Review,       Washington Post, Radio Europe) suggest receptive audiences       around the world and the potential for further engagement.
In June 2011 Harris was selected as a New Generation Thinker       (funded by the AHRC and BBC Radio 3).
Since then, as a regular contributor       to Radio 3, she has drawn on her research to participate in high-profile       public debates about British culture and tradition.
Speaking alongside       National Trust director Fiona Reynolds in a Nightwaves special       (April 2012), she urged the vital importance of literary history in       understanding attitudes to landscape and, in a programme on the       `well-being agenda' and its policy implications (September 2012), she       brought insights from fiction to bear on a debate otherwise dominated by       economists.
Harris's radio essays have featured on Radio 4's Pick of         the Week and her broadcasting is showcased in the AHRC's 2013         Impact Report.
