 The development of person-centred practices that lead to better outcomes for patients, staff and teams.
High profile implementation studies in Northern Ireland, The Republic of Ireland and in Australia have been informed by the Person-centred Nursing Theoretical Framework (the framework).
These programmes of implementation research have involved working collaboratively with large numbers of practitioners, patients/clients, families and service managers (&gt; 600 in the Republic of Ireland Programme; &gt;2000 in Australia and &gt;450 in Northern Ireland).
Through these studies we have shown improved outcomes in: (i) the delivery of nursing and healthcare (Source 1a) [such as pain management post-operatively in acute care and the management of mealtimes in residential settings http://www.implementationscience.com/content/6/1/9; (ii) culture change to support more person-centred ways of working (Source 2) [such as improved leadership, better care coordination and more effective team-work]; (iii) improved care experiences by patients/clients (such as increased `hope', more dignified care and more involvement in care http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1748-3743.2010.00216.x/abstract); (iv) more person-centredness experienced by staff in the workplace (Source 2) (such as increased commitment, role clarification, more effective communication and more access to on-going professional development.
Further impact from this research can be demonstrated through the international adoption of the framework.
For example in Australia the `Aspire to Inspire' Care Programme has used the framework to systematically change practices in residential care settings in New South Wales (Source 3a; see page 9 for reference to framework).
As a part of this work, an indigenously-sensitive version of the framework has been developed and utilised with indigenous populations in order to ensure that their care is dignified and sensitive to their needs (Source 3a, page 23).
In addition, the framework is used within the programmes `continuous improvement' monitoring system (Source 3b).
These programmes of work have not just used the framework to guide implementation but the associated instruments have been used to evaluate the effectiveness of processes and resulting outcomes.
The influencing of policy for the development of person-centred services.
Examples of policy impact are the use of the framework to underpin key strategic developments in Northern Ireland, The Republic of Ireland, Great Britain, Australia and New Zealand.
In Northern Ireland the framework has been used as the theory of choice to underpin the Chief Nursing Officer's Nursing Strategy (Source 4; see page 14 of strategy document for reference to framework), the Northern Ireland Cancer Network's Service Framework (Source 5; letter from lead nurse) and the DHSSPS Older People's Services Policy Framework (Source 6; see pages 52-53 for reference to framework).
The Royal College of Nursing adopted the framework to inform its development of `Principles of Nursing Practice' and these are being implemented across the UK (Source 7; letter from RCN Head of Nursing and `Principles of Nursing Practice' policy document &#8212; see pages14-16 for reference to framework).
In the Republic of Ireland the framework has been used to develop a `National Practice Development Strategy' commissioned by the Chief Nurse and which has been implemented throughout the Health Services Executive service areas (Source 1a).
This has resulted in changes to how nursing professional development is organised, how care practices are developed and how patient care is delivered (for example end of life care in acute hospitals &#8212; Source 1b).
In Australia, a development programme (The Essentials of Care Programme [EOC]) in over 600 clinical areas that is facilitated by The Chief Nurse of New South Wales Health Department is based on the framework (Source 8; letter from Chief Nurse).
Examples of outcomes from this work show, a 70% reduction in medication incidents; improvements in communication with patients/families; improvements in the patient care experience; increased awareness of the impact of the environment on the delivery of patient care; more consistent identification and implementation of patient safety initiatives that are congruent with NSW Health priorities; and staff being able to use the change process learned from the EOC programme to implement mandated changes e.g.
bedside handover (Source 9; see page 47 for reference to framework).
This focus on learning has been continued in New Zealand, where the framework has been adapted to inform a learning strategy for continuing specialty nursing education over 3 District Health Boards (Source 10a; See page 1 for reference to the framework).
Use of this education framework, informed by person-centredness is being used to change the culture of nursing in the Region (Source 10b: See pages 45-46 for reference to framework) Overall, implementation of research arising from the development, refinement and evaluation of the usability of the person-centred nursing theoretical framework in practice has resulted in outcomes for individuals (patients, families, staff), teams and organisations that collectively demonstrate changes to workplace cultures towards ones that are more person-centred.
