     The primary impact of the Gladstone project has been to preserve an       important part of the UK's cultural heritage and to make it available to       audiences outside the academy.
Specifically, it has stimulated tourism to       Gladstone's Library, a significant commercial heritage institution in the       area, and in Wales second only to the National Library of Wales in       Aberystwyth, with holdings of over 250,000 volumes.
In particular, it has       enabled a significant re-orientation of the Library's marketing strategy,       emblematised by the change of name from `St Deiniol's Library' to       `Gladstone's Library' in 2010 reflecting the opportunity for the Library       to market itself as a Gladstone heritage institution.
Media articles now       routinely refer to the Library as a `memorial' institution (e.g.
Huffington       Post blog April 2013).
This has led to significant and continuing       usage increase &#8212; the 2011 average for users of the Library was 10.3 per       day, while 2012, a year in which the GladCAT collection was actively       promoted to the public, saw an increase to 15.8.
Guided tours, which       average 3 visitors a day, now show a variety of Gladstone's books and his       annotations in them.
Such is the extent of this re-orientation that Gladstone's books have now       been moved into a `Gladstone Foundation Collection', housed separately       from the main collection for reasons of both security and for marketing       purposes, which would have been impossible before the findings of the       project.
The Library has managed (at the time of writing) to raise &#163;38,304       in funding for this initiative, from funders including the Leverhulme       Trust, the Coutts Charitable Trust, the P.H.
Holt Foundation and the       Worshipful Company of Grocers, as well as numerous private individuals.
More widely, the move to an electronic catalogue for the Library (fully       accessible online) has fundamentally transformed library users'       experience, and significantly eased the administrative burden on the       staff, prior to 2006, the entire Library was catalogued by card-index       only, and a partial electronic catalogue operated until completion in       2009.
In the month of February 2013, the main electronic catalogue for the       Library logged a total of 262 sessions (individual users) with 642       searches.
Moreover in November 2013, Gladstone's Library will begin the       process of uploading its collection to COPAC.
In terms of the GladCAT       (annotations) database, in February 2013 there were 27 sessions       (individual users) and 50 searches; approximately 10% of all searches on       the main catalogue.
These searches averaged results of 42 `hits', giving       searchers a significant range of results.
GladCAT has its own assigned       terminal in the Library for users to consult, and indeed librarians at the       Institution now continue the work on the GladCAT database, undertaking       further accession-register research to discover un-annotated books which       might have belonged to Gladstone.
The Gladstone research also led to media interest from within the local       community, which was centred around publicising both the research into       Gladstone's reading itself, and the Library as a visitor attraction.
Bradley was interviewed on the Daybreak programme (religious       broadcasting) on BBC Radio Merseyside in March 2008, and on the Fishlock's         Wild Tracks programme (guide to local sites of historic and       touristic interest) in February 2009.
It has also formed the basis of the       University's continuing relationship with the Library.
In 2013, for       example, the Library organised a programme under the umbrella heading of `Re:Defining         Liberalism' - a questionnaire given to readers and visitors in 2012       on whether and why they counted themselves liberal.
This generated nearly       300 responses (some by famous names including Anthony Selden and Cardinal       Cormac Murphy O'Connor).
Bradley also worked closely with the Gladstone       Library's Director of Collections and Research to organise an academic       conference on Victorian liberalism that looked outside the academy,       including as a keynote speaker Sir Alan Beith, ex-deputy leader of the       Liberal Democrats.
The University of Liverpool's `Gladstone Centre', a local grouping of       North West institutions including Liverpool John Moores University,       University of Chester, University of Keele, and the University of       Manchester, first established in 2003, has made significant impact on the       research on teaching practice at those institutions; a number of these       institutions now regularly bring their graduates to the Library to use the       electronic catalogue and the GladCAT database as part of their       postgraduate programmes.
The Centre has made a successful AHRC bid       (University of Liverpool, University of Keele) to host events in May and       September 2013 to bring together potential external partners with       postgraduates from other universities: participating institutions include       the Wordsworth Trust, the Prince's Trust, the New Vic Theatre and the       Samuel Johnson Birthplace Museum.
The Centre has also shifted its gaze outwards as a result of the project:       in December 2013, a new initiative, the new annual `Gladstone Centre       Lecture', will form a key part of the Library's round of advertised talks       and courses (primarily aimed at the local community and the public).
Dr       Emma Mason, Reader at the University of Warwick, has accepted an       invitation to deliver the first lecture on the basis of the reputation the       Gladstone Library has developed.
