     In modern Ireland, a partitioned and contested territory, the role of the       historian is central to civic debate and understanding.
Professor Marianne       Elliott is widely admired and respected as one of the historians who has       worked hardest to demythologize the Irish past.
She is recognised as       having enhanced public understanding of the issues which have underpinned       conflict in Ireland.
Writing in the Irish Times (10 September       2011), Ireland's leading public intellectual, Fintan O'Toole, commented:       "History matters in Ireland, not least because the past is so unsettled       ...
The meaning of historical events is still up for grabs in the public       realm ... More than in other western countries, historians (Roy Foster,       Marianne Elliott, Diarmaid Ferriter and many others) are key public       intellectuals, trusted to bring some kind of perspective to bear on       current events."
That Elliott should be named as one of his three examples       of the committed historian is no accident.
The findings of Elliott's research have frequently been taken up by both       individuals and organisations working to promote peace-building and       reconciliation in Northern Ireland.
In 2010, in anticipation of the       looming `decade of anniversaries', she was invited by the Northern Ireland       Community Relations Council (NICRC) to address a public conference at       Belfast City Hall on the vexed question of public commemoration.
Held in       March 2011, the conference was organised in two panels, the first       comprised of four historians (including Elliott) and a journalist, the       second comprised of five politicians (from the DUP, SF, UU, SDLP and       Alliance parties).
The 250-strong audience included representatives of       various cultural organisations, and community and religious leaders as       well as politicians and journalists.
Elliott used her address,       `Remembering Different Pasts for Different Futures', to highlight key       findings from her own work on history, identity, myth and conflict, and to       plead for a shared and dignified commemoration of a divided past.
Her       presentation was published by the Community Relations Council in pp.
25-7       of its booklet based on the conference proceedings, Remembering           the Future.
NICRC's Cultural Diversity Director identifies the       two major outcomes of the conference as follows: "broad support for the       adoption of 5 principles for remembering in public space; and secondly the       Centenaries are now discussed at all levels ... playing into the       complexities rather than the simplicities."
While these are outcomes of a       collective endeavour, the organiser commented that Elliott's contribution       was especially valuable as "it gives a really accessible entry point into       thinking about public and local history."
Elliott's work has been very widely reviewed in the Irish press       (including church publications as well as broadsheet newspapers, such as       the Irish Times, 24 November 2009).
Reviewers include leading       figures in the churches and influential peace activists.
A former       Moderator of the Presbyterian Church &#8212; himself a prominent peace       campaigner &#8212; reviewed When God Took Sides in glowing terms in the       Presbyterian Herald in April 2011.
(The Herald, circulation       14,000, is the official magazine of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland.)
The review concluded: "This is a book which will stimulate and illuminate       the mind with its descriptions and insights as the attitudes, strengths,       deficiencies and prejudices of the Anglican, Roman Catholic and       Presbyterian communities are uncovered.
Before that which is comforting       from a particular point of view is absorbed and the uncomfortable is       dismissed, each community would do well to pay attention to how it is seen       by others."
Prior to publication of this review, its author wrote to       Elliott to tell her that he had already urged other people to read When         God Took Sides since it captured the anxieties and fears of the       different communities in Ireland so well.
Elliott frequently takes part in public discussions of her research in       Northern Ireland.
For example, in March 2009 and February 2010, she       appeared at two public events organised by the Belfast Exposed gallery.
The first, at which Elliott appeared in conversation with `catholic       atheist' Dr Michael Fitzpatrick and broadcaster William Crawley, addressed       the enduring power of religion, its specific appeal to the poor and       marginalised and the problems it raises for contemporary secular       societies.
The second saw Elliott give a public lecture on Belfast's       eighteenth-century role as hub of the Enlightenment and of Presbyterian       republicanism.
Both events drew audiences of around forty, including       artists and members of the general public as well as academics and       students.
The gallery's director reports that Elliott's lecture received       "great feedback from [the] audience."
She notes of the two events: "They       were both extremely well attended as gallery talks, and were very lively       events with lots of audience participation."
As one of Ireland's best-known public historians, Elliott is regularly       invited to contribute to media debates on history, identity and conflict.
Television and radio producers, along with print journalists, frequently       draw on the findings of her research.
Publication of her books has led to       invitations to take part in lengthy interviews, in which the findings of       her historical research and the messages that might be drawn from it have       been relayed in considerable depth.
For example, following the publication       of When God Took Sides (2009), Elliott gave a seven-minute       interview to BBC Radio Ulster's flagship religious affairs programme,       `Sunday Sequence'.
(The regular audience for `Sunday Sequence' at this       time was around 100,000.)
In 2011, Elliott was one of the central contributors to `The Story of       Ireland', a major, five-part television series, co-produced by the BBC and       RTE, and presented by Fergal Keane.
This was shown at primetime in Britain       and both North and South of the Irish border and attracted very high       viewing-figures (an average of 1.2 million viewers per episode).
It       achieved live viewing-figures in the Republic of Ireland of just under       250,000 and an audience-share of 21% (the usual figure for programmes of       this sort is 5%).
Strikingly, the makers of the series received many       emails from individual viewers in Ireland and the UK, and the USA,       praising the series for telling them things they had never heard about       their native country, and altering the perceptions they had inherited from       childhood stories.
(A typical message, from the headmistress of a school       in County Roscommon, 10 March 2011, read: "There's a fantastic reaction to       the whole series here in Ireland.
We need more of this sort of stuff for       our young (and OURSELVES) to know and appreciate our history.
Well done to       the whole team.")
The BBC book, The Story of Ireland (2011) drew extensively and       directly on Elliott's work, including The Catholics of Ulster and       Robert Emmet.
Its author describes his brief as "to write an       intelligent and accessible history ... and, importantly, to create a book       which would utilize the most recent academic research in the field."
He       adds: "I found Marianne Elliott's texts simply crucial in piecing together       the heavily contested history of Ireland in the seventeenth, eighteenth       and early nineteenth centuries."
The Story of Ireland has sold       22,000 copies in the UK and Ireland, plus an additional 4,500 in the USA,       helping to bring key insights from Elliott's research to a new generation       of readers.
Media interest in Elliott's work has thus afforded her many opportunities       to communicate her research to a broad range of audiences, informing       public debate and increasing popular understanding of Irish history,       identity and culture.
