     Davies' contribution to public understanding of gang conflict and       knife-crime has been achieved in part though frequent coverage by national       media.
The Gangs of Manchester was widely reviewed in the national       press and the Daily Mail ran an abridged extract (2009).
BBC       television coverage includes features for Inside Out (2009) and The         One Show (2012).
BBC radio coverage includes a dedicated special       edition of Thinking Allowed (Radio 4, 2008), a contribution on the       history of gangs to Whatever Happened to the Working Class?
(Radio       4, 2009) and a `thought piece' for The World This Weekend (Radio       4), commissioned in response to the Prime Minister's call for an "all-out       war on gangs and gang culture" in the wake of the riots of August 2011.
Listeners described the latter as "refreshing" and "thought provoking"       (emails to Davies, 21 August 2011).
A fuller version of this piece was       published in the Guardian, sparking a debate on the Guardian       website, where it attracted 87 comments and was shared by 1,586 people via       Facebook and 120 via Twitter.
At the invitation of the History &amp;       Policy network Davies gave a presentation of his core findings (as       summarised in Section 2, above) to civil servants in the Department for       Education in January 2012.
This was described by one of the civil servants       in attendance as "wonderful and insightful" (email to Davies, 1 February       2012).
By 31 July 2013, more than 15,000 copies of The Gangs of Manchester       had been sold, and the companion         blog had attracted 92,896 viewings.
Feedback from readers confirms       that the appeal of Davies' work extends far beyond the established       audience for non-fiction.
As one reader observed in an email to Davies (18       January 2009): "a cousin of mine who's never bought a book in his life       bought the scuttlers [book] ... an he's struggled to read it (last book       before that woulda bin in school an he's 45) but he really enjoyed it ...       rang me up one night to discuss it."
Another reader posted on Davies' blog       on 19 June 2009: "As i am from manchester and my mam grew up in ancoats.
I       realy found this book amazing i could not put it down.
i am not a big       reader.
But i finished it in two and a half days."
The local impact of Davies' work is further demonstrated by invitations       to give public talks based on his book.
He gave twenty-five between       September 2008 and July 2013, in venues ranging from libraries to lads'       clubs and an EBD school.
Librarians have reported that Davies' talks have       attracted record audiences for such events, including unusually large       proportions of men and new visitors.
Tameside Local Studies and Archives       Centre has hosted two of Davies' talks, and arranged a third at a       community centre on the Hattersley `overspill' estate in association with       the `Mancunian Reunion' project run by Tameside Libraries and Hattersley       Neighbourhood Partnership.
A further batch of invited talks have been delivered to magistrates and       probation officers and to probation hostel residents and prisoners in HM       Prison Manchester, Strangeways.
Presentations to professionals have       stressed the second of the key findings outlined in Section 2, above:       gangs are not a product of postwar growth of Manchester's black community.
Feedback has been highly enthusiastic, with one member of staff at a       probation hostel reporting: "The feedback that we have had from staff and       residents has been positive and this has generated further interest in       historical crime and punishment, within our area.
This will include a       number of Museum Visits and City Walks, to stimulate interest and       discussion" (email to Davies, 11 June 2010).
A major &#8212; and unanticipated &#8212; beneficiary of Davies' research has been       MaD, a community theatre company.
During a period of study leave in       2008-9, Davies collaborated with MaD on an original, multi-media stage       play.
MaD's script-writers and film-maker used characters and episodes       from The Gangs of Manchester as the basis for Angels with         Manky Faces, a `gangland' drama set in 1894.
They saw the       collaboration as an opportunity to write a `message' play.
The harrowing       final scene, based on cases documented in Davies' book, spelled out the       tragic consequences of gang violence.
Davies worked closely with MaD on       all aspects of the production from script-editing to costume and set       design.
Grants towards production costs included &#163;4,990 from the Arts       Council and &#163;2,000 from the Economic History Society.
Extensive publicity       included BBC television coverage of a rehearsal for North-West Tonight       (2009).
Thirteen performances of Angels were staged in Manchester and       Liverpool during 2009-10.
The total audience of 3,970 is by far the       highest to date for a MaD production.
MaD aims to produce plays "for       people who don't normally go to the theatre" and Angels was       notably successful in this respect.
MaD's artistic director confirmed that       audiences for Angels included groups from public-houses and       community centres in areas of Manchester characterised by high levels of       socio-economic deprivation.
Enthusiastic audience responses to the play       are captured on Davies' blog.
In July 2013, productions of Angels with         Manky Faces were staged by pupils at two secondary schools       (Manchester Communication Academy and Manchester Creative and Media       Academy) in association with MaD.
Theatre critic Kevin Bourke described Angels as a significant       departure for MaD in terms of artistic ambition as well as box office       success.
MaD currently uses film sequences from Angels to showcase       its work in schools across Greater Manchester, while members of MaD's       youth groups review the films as part of their work towards their Arts       Awards (a scheme in association with Arts Council England).
In 2010, MaD       won an `Inspiring Voices' award (worth &#163;500) from the Media Trust for its       use of digital media in producing and publicising Angels.
Other       literary and musical works inspired by The Gangs of Manchester       include poems by two published Manchester poets, Mike Garry and Mike Duff       (featured on Davies' blog), and a song &#8212; based on one of the chapters in       Davies' book &#8212; recorded by the pop group, Bye Bye Johnny (2009).
Another unanticipated beneficiary of Davies' research is a Manchester       tour guide who devised a `Gangs of Manchester' walk in 2009.
She takes       groups of 25-30 people &#8212; including tourists as well as local residents &#8212;       around districts that feature prominently in Davies' book and her       commentary is closely based on his research findings.
She has reported       that the `Gangs of Manchester' is by far the most popular of her walks and       attracts a distinctive clientele, many of whom have not previously taken       part in tours of this kind (email to Davies, 14 November 2011).
