     The impact of Receptions research at Liverpool on communities that create       receptions of antiquity       today is evidenced in the fields of film, television, and theatre.
In each       instance, analyses of       contemporary responses to antiquity have inspired individuals to       reappraise their methods,       perspectives and practices or to use the research as a springboard for       their own interrogative       analyses, thus leading to new ways of thinking and modes of expression at       personal and       professional levels.
(1) Film-makers: In her 2009 work on Alexander (2004), a       biopic by Hollywood director Oliver       Stone, Joanna Paul traces the film's production environment, its generic       appropriation of `new epic'       conventions and its relationship with older works, and the narrative       structure it imposes upon the       biography of Alexander the Great.
In the process, she evaluates the       success of the film, and       wonders `what would have been done differently had the director listened       to Aristotle as carefully       as Alexander did' (p. 28).
Paul argues that the philosopher's proposition       that epic and tragedy       should be shaped around `a single action, not a single hero' could have       been applied successfully       to this cinematic epic.
This idea had direct impact upon Oliver Stone.
In       a written response that       forms the epilogue to the edited collection featuring Paul's work       (Greenland &amp; Cartledge, 2009), he       remarks firstly on the perspicuity of her observations &#8212; `Dr. Paul perhaps       gets to the nut of it in my       mind' &#8212; and then proceeds to `follow(s) the lead given by Dr. Paul'       (p.343) to imagine how his       revised Alexander could be read with a `single action' at its       core.
He states explicitly that `Dr Paul,       in pointing to Aristotle's "single action," has opened my eyes to what I       missed at the time' (p. 348).
The director acquired new understandings of his own work as a         film-maker and story-teller, and its         possibilities, by engaging with Paul's research.
(See Section 5 (1))     (2) Media practitioners: Fiona Hobden's research on ancient world       documentaries provided the       background, stimulus and framework for the Documenting Antiquity workshop,       which met for the       first time in July 2013.
The workshop, the first of its type ever to be       held in the UK, is a mixed group       comprising commissioners, directors, and producers from the primary UK       broadcasters (BBC, ITV)       and production houses (Lion TV, Tern TV, MediaLab UK) and academics from       Classics, Ancient       History and Media Studies.
With its purpose to examine the character,       effects, and future directions       of ancient world documentaries, two journal articles by Hobden (2013a,       2013b) made logical       starting points.
During discussion of `processes, priorities,       practicalities, and purposes' and `telling       stories', programme-makers discussed the use of archaeological artefacts       to narrate and       substantiate ancient history, the construction of presenters as reliably       academic, and what makes       a good (and bad) programme about antiquity - key ideas in the       pre-circulated research.
The       impact of this discussion on participants was recognized in feedback.
Filtered         through the         workshop, Hobden's research provided a prism through which members of         the media community         could articulate and interrogate their own experiences and practices.
It thereby played a role in         their personal and professional development.
(See Section 5 (2) and       (3), below.)
(3) Theatre producers: Members of the theatre community have also       benefited from Liverpool       research.
The impact of Tom Harrison's work on the creative practice of       Alison Richards, an       Australian theatre artist and practice-based researcher at Monash       University, is witnessed in her       experimental performance paper `X Marks the Spot' (22 August 2010,       Malthouse Theatre,       Melbourne).
The performance took place at a multi-disciplinary conference       entitled `"From Sappho       to X": Classics, Performance, Reception', before an audience of 120       theatre professionals,       Humanities scholars, and members of the public.
Richards first encountered       Harrison's research       whilst scoping out Classical scholarship on the relationship between       ancient and modern.
As       certified in both the script and Richard's written testimonial, Harrison's         ideas and methods directly         influenced both the spoken content and physical shape of the resulting         performance.
i) Spoken quotations from Harrison's 2008 paper regarding the mutual       comprehension of ancient       and modern empires, the potential of classical reception studies to expose       ideology in       ancient/modern discourses, and his question `can an understanding of       ancient imperialisms cast       light on contemporary experience?'
follow immediately upon observations       regarding modern       appropriations of the Classical, including the perverse priority in       Australia of a `Western legacy of       performance', when the country's population originates globally and its       geopolitical alignment is       with Asia; all the while the speaker builds her own arena of ancient       imperial ambition drawn from       Herodotus in sand (pp.3-4).
Harrison's observations are directly       integrated into the performance       event, so as to inform its particular consideration, through performance,       of the `potential       contribution of contemporary theatre theory and performance practice to       Classical reception       studies' (p. 2).
Later in the piece, his assertion of Herodotus'       multivocality and resultant ambiguity       on matters of power are a particular inspiration for thinking about this       theoretical issue (p. 5: `I am       particularly interested in ... claimed by Harrison on Herodotus' behalf').
The remainder of Richard's       piece emulates this multivocality by resurrecting and re-scripting female       voices from the Classical       past (p.7).
(See Section 5 (4) and (5), below.)
ii) Harrison's introduction of a family photograph into his analysis of       modern imperialism inspired       Richards to use an atlas belonging to her grandmother as a prop during her       own analysis: a       physical mapping of ancient empires in sand on-stage.
(See Section 5 (5),       below.)
