     Liverpool research by Harrison and Tuplin on Herodotus, Persia and the       Greeks impacts on the teaching, study and writing of ancient history by       teachers, school students, interested adults who are not in formal       education, and popular historians.
Working with partner institutions, such       as OCR awarding body, the Historical Association or Reading Odyssey, it       re-defines not only knowledge and understanding of this topic amongst       these beneficiaries, but also the ways in which they learn about the       topics.
1.
Impacts on the teaching and learning of Ancient History in UK       Classrooms       Through continuing professional development (CPD) activities for teachers,       on-going engagement with the OCR awarding body and the creation of       research-based resources for teachers and students alike, Liverpool       research has improved the quality of ancient history education in the       classroom and contributed to the present renaissance of the subject in       secondary and tertiary education.
a.
The Liverpool Ancient History Teachers' Summer School (now extended       into a nationwide programme of courses) is a unique programme of CPD for       school-teachers delivered by academic staff, that provides in-depth       introductions to core topics in the GCSE, AS and A-level curriculum.
In       sessions dedicated to `Herodotus', `Ancient Persia' and `Alexander' in       August 2012 and July 2013, the 31 participants were introduced to recent       Liverpool research: namely, Tuplin's work on Persian exploitation of the       empire (as evidenced in the correspondence of the satrap Arshama),       Harrison's work on Herodotean historiography, his critique of the broad       contours of recent Achaemenid scholarship (especially in relation to the       themes of tolerance and openness) and his analysis of the background of       the Alexander tradition in earlier Greek traditions on Persia.
Participants subsequently commented on the ways in which the sessions had       changed their understanding and the experience of the pupils they teach       (corroborating source 1a).
They spoke, for example, of how the sessions       had `deepen[ed their] knowledge of the subject, of how they felt `much       more enlightened', and that they felt they had `benefitted greatly from       their [Christopher Tuplin and Tom Harrison's] expertise and insights',       that `the topic [of Persia] really did come to life for me', and that       Harrison's `incredible grasp on the nuances of the sources for (and       scholarship about) the Achaemenid Empire has clarified numerous confusions       I would otherwise have passed on'.
In particular, participants commented       on how the sessions had been useful `in re-thinking Herodotus', `for       considering the perspectives of the Persian Empire', or in underlining the       view `that there is another side to Xerxes'.
The sessions were also       credited with `[unveiling] a plethora of new materials ... to strengthen       the source base available to pupils', `particularly epigraphical sources'       and graphics.
Participants also commented on how the sessions had prompted       `ideas for production of tasks to be used in my classes, and different       methods of approaching my subjects', that the course had made them realise       that `there is not just one correct answer and it is the skills that the       students need rather than the answers', that they had changed the       questions that they would study as a result of the sessions, and that       overall the effect of the sessions would be to `[improve] grades and       educational experiences'.
b. Liverpool's development of research-based CPD for teachers of Ancient       History has also had a marked effect on the uptake of Ancient History as a       school subject, and on the thinking of the one UK awarding body who offer       it as a subject, the Oxford, Cambridge and RSA awarding body.
The Chair of       Examiners for Classics attributes a significant aspect of the increase in       the uptake of Ancient History to the effect of the courses based on       Liverpool research (corroborating source 1b) suggesting, e.g.
that they       were instrumental in a 30% rise in the number of centres entering for the       GCSE from 2012 to 2013 (either through our directly persuading schools to       take up Ancient History or through supporting them to do so).
She also       credits the courses with raising the profile of the subject within the       wider history community, with encouraging OCR to engage directly with       Higher Education Institutions in the development of the curriculum, and to       ensure that the development of qualifications (especially in relation to       Persia) `reflect[s] the most recent academic thinking'.
c. The impact of Harrison's research on how ancient Persia is taught in       schools is extended by his contribution to Teaching History       (`Polychronicon: Interpreting the Persian Wars', 2013, pp.
36-7).
Adopting       an explicitly pedagogical perspective, and with an accompanying piece by       an experienced teacher-trainer suggesting strategies for translating       Harrison's research into the classroom, the article poses fundamental       questions about how ancient Persia should be studied, and presents varying       perspectives on key themes such as the tolerance of the empire, its       relationship to its subjects, and the use of Greek sources in       reconstructing Persian history.
As of September 2013, 68 secondary school       teachers had downloaded this piece through the Historical Association       website, in addition to others who accessed it through the print version &#8212;       with a circulation of c.3,000, and an additional 900 individuals who       accessed the whole journal online (corroborating source 1c).
Additionally,       Harrison's perspective on ancient Persia formed the basis for an article       (`The Persian Empire.
Myths and Realities') in the BBC History         Magazine (August 2011), reaching an estimated         readership of c. 72,000 (2011 circulation figures published by       InPublishing).
d. School teachers and students are also the beneficiaries of Harrison's       research on the Persian empire, Greek-Persian relations, and Herodotus via       the Historical Association Podcasted History project.
According to       statistics provided by the Historical Association, between April and       September 2013, 355 secondary school teachers, 902 secondary students, and       147 other individuals have downloaded his podcasts (corroborating source       1c).
2.
Impacts on the public understanding of Ancient History outside the       Classroom       Tuplin's and Harrison's research on ancient Persia has also had an impact       on the understanding of people learning about the ancient world outside of       formal education, internationally.
This is achieved through the       dissemination of their ideas through other public-facing platforms, and       through Harrison's influence on a prominent popular historian with a       worldwide readership in the hundreds of thousands     a.
The Reading Odyssey project is a US non-profit organisation that       provides on-line educational resources of `intellectually curious' adults.
`The Persian Version', a live Jan. 2011 `webinar', since published online       as a podcast, translates issues fundamental to Harrison's research on the       historiographical tradition of the Persian Wars (esp.
the difficulties of       accessing a `Persian version') into an accessible discussion of the battle       of Marathon.
On live transmission, the webinar had 1,200 participants       across seven countries across Europe and the Americas.
Since then, it has       been downloaded approximately 1,000 times, many in classroom settings with       audiences of 20 to 30 people (corroborating source 2a).
b. Harrison's wider work has reached even wider audiences through the       mediation of Tom Holland's popular histories.
Holland credits Harrison's       distinctive treatment of Greek representations of Persia in his       `ground-breaking' Emptiness of Asia (Harrison 2000a) as playing `the       key role' in developing his understanding of Athenian perceptions of       Persia, ideas which underpinned Holland's 2005 book, Persian Fire.
This work has since been translated into 16 languages, and has sold       155,000 copies in the UK alone, and around half a million copies       worldwide.
His new translation of Herodotus' Histories (2013) for       non-specialist audiences has similarly taken Harrison's research to       non-specialist audiences, not just in print but through its serialisation       in The Guardian and Telegraph newspapers, and radio       programmes on Radio 3 and 5 Live.
Holland credits his own persuasive       `case' for Herodotus `in no small part' to the influence of Harrison's       interpretations (corroborating source 2b).
c. The exhibition (`Thus Arshama speaks') associated with Tuplin's       project on the correspondence of the Persian satrap Arshama presented       central themes of Tuplin's commentary on the Arshama letters, for example       their value for understanding the rationing of journeys within the empire,       Arshama's epistolary practice, and his focus on maximising profit from his       estates.
The exhibition is estimated to have reached an audience of 19,500       in the Bodleian Library proscholium between 30 June and 16 July 2011       (corroborating source 2c, d).
