     Delivery     In order to benefit users and lead to impact, the underpinning research       was disseminated and       further developed with special focus on its practical applications through       (a) the training of       undergraduate philosophers in the tenets of the underpinning research and       the delivery of       workshops and lessons to young people; (b) the presentation of the       methodology at practitioner-conferences;       (c) freely accessible electronic resources.
(a)In partnership with Liverpool College and Liverpool Biennial,       Vassilopoulou trained students       (through an accredited undergraduate module and a volunteering scheme) in       classical       techniques of self understanding and the incorporation of metaphor and       story telling into       teaching, to deliver Philosophy and PSHE lessons to a selected group of       KS3 pupils during a       three week placement (2012-13) and facilitate free Philosophy and Art       workshops for children in       KS1&amp;2 (across the region) and their families as part of the official       programme of Liverpool         Biennial 2012.
(b) The methodology was further disseminated through presentations at       practitioner conferences at       which teachers and educationalists were present, such as Teaching           the Teaching of Philosophy           with Children (Greenwich, May 2012) and Educating         Wellbeing (Liverpool, October 2012),       fostering comparisons and evaluation of different methodologies and       best-practice sharing.
(c) Vassilopoulou's collaboration with the EU-funded Open Discovery Space       (ODS) project led to       the dissemination of research to the ODS's consortium, including       beneficiaries such as Intrasoft,       NGOs, and UNESCO and a network of 4,000 European school communities.
We       designed       interactive learning objects that exemplify our methodology and       educational content, which       became available to all ODS users, thereby also facilitating knowledge       sharing between school       communities, educationalists and policy makers at international level.
This, then, expanded and       will continue to expand both the significance and reach of the Lyceum's       impact beyond the       directly targeted local communities.
Moreover, international dissemination       was also achieved       through the Lyceum Project website,       which between April and July 2013 had over 2100 visitors       (15% of them international).
Measuring Impact     (i) Changes in Subjective Wellbeing Indicators:     In order to measure the impact on improving the subjective wellbeing of       pupils taking the PSHE       lessons informed by our methodology, we collaborated with New         Philanthropy Capital (NPC), a       consultancy think-tank, which has developed the Wellbeing         Measure Tool to analyse and evaluate       young persons' subjective wellbeing.
We conducted this survey on 110       participating Liverpool       College pupils in Years 7 and 9 before and after our three-week Philosophy       and PSHE course in       February 2012.
In terms of significance, the results demonstrate that the       project significantly       increased self-esteem, defined as "a child's appraisal of his or       her own worth [...] closely linked       with self-confidence [...] important for a healthy, happy life", and life-satisfaction,       "a global measure       of a child's overall happiness or satisfaction where the child rates his       or her life".
In particular, the       average self-esteem score of the group relative to the national       base line increased from 51.4%       before the intervention, to 59.4% after, while life-satisfaction increased       from 49.5% to 55%.
With       regards to self-esteem, the results were statistically significant       to 99.6% confidence, while with life-satisfaction       to 95.5% confidence.
According to NPC, this means that we can be very       confident       (99.6% and 95.5% certain) that the changes are not just due to chance.
Wishing to correlate subjective wellbeing with end-users' evaluation of       the academic merits       of the project, we gathered responses from the 110 participating pupils to       an anonymous       questionnaire developed in consultation with NPC.
The results demonstrated       that 83% agree or       strongly agree that the lessons were interesting and 74% agree or strongly       agree that they want to       have similar lessons in the future.
Given the statistical significance and       correlation of these results,       the next priority for the project was to ensure that changes in the       subjective wellbeing of this target       group would inform changes in objective wellbeing, namely, educational       policy and practice, thus       expanding the significance of the project and its reach to national and       international users.
(ii) Changes in Objective wellbeing indicators:     The impact was also captured by changes in educational policy and       practice in schools and       cultural institutions, further supported by testimonials, all attesting to       an increase in objective       wellbeing via the enrichment of young persons' educational opportunities       for self-reflection,       dialogue and cultural engagement.
These changes provide the mechanism to       ensure that the       changes in subjective wellbeing evidenced above will be long-lasting and       sustainable.
(a)Schools: In September 2012, Liverpool College       established the Philosophy and PSHE lessons       as an annual programme, and introduced Arete, a unique programme       replacing Religious       Studies: its educational priorities (as a space for reflection), the       topics it covers (conscience,       virtue, community) and its mode of delivery were the direct effect of       teachers' exposure to the       Lyceum Project pedagogy and the student-demand reflected in the       survey results above for       'similar lessons in the future'.
Furthermore, H. Broekman, Principal of       Liverpool College,       comments, "The Philosophy students who teach at our school have provided       intellectual rigour       and a lot of creativity.
They have improved the school and enthused our       pupils".
D. McLaughlin,       Liverpool School Improvement Team EYFS, states: "This philosophical       approach made me       reflect on my planned work ... will use it to get practitioners to reflect       as they work with children".
With reference to our electronic resources accessed through ODS, M.       Fragaki, Headteacher       and trainer at the ICT Institute, Ministry of Education, Greece, writes:       "they are unique and       stimulating, I have strongly recommended them for use in the Citizenship       lessons taught in my       school ...
I will also be using these learning objects and ideas in the       teacher-training       programme I lead".
Dr A. Abu-Dayyeh, member of the UNESCO committee for       teaching       philosophy to children in four continents, has used our resources in       schools in Jordan and       identifies the Lyceum Project's contribution to UNESCO's aims as       `empower[ing] young people       to integrate in multicultural societies'.
(b) Cultural Institutions: As a result of the formal       inclusion of the Philosophy and Art workshops in       the Biennial's official programme of events (2012), a number of new       partners in the local area       came forward to be involved with the developing methodology.
Hence, the       initial sessions led       not only to further collaboration with Liverpool Biennial, but also the       production of new tailor-made       workshops for The Bluecoat, National Museums Liverpool, FACT, and METAL.
These       new opportunities were developed under an AHRC Cultural Engagement award       (2/2013-5/2013)       with additional funding from the School of the Arts.
The partnerships led       to the inclusion       of the Lyceum Project's methodology in the educational programmes       of the above institutions,       thereby changing their practice in this regard.
Furthermore, the       contribution of the Lyceum         Project to their educational programmes was co-developed in       consultation meetings with these       leading institutions, and input from the meetings, as well as       self-assessment of the project by       the AHRC post-doctoral researcher (February-May 2013), fed back into the       refinement and       development of the methodology, so that it best reflected end-users needs.
A national       conference co-hosted by The Bluecoat (June 2013) brought together       theorists, educators,       curators, policy makers and artists and allowed for co-ordination of       educational strategies,       better understanding of user requirements, and increased awareness of the       links between       education and children wellbeing.
Further evidence of the project's       contribution to local       educational programmes is given by the CEO Liverpool Biennial, who       comments on volunteers       and staff from the Department: "They bring an informed and intelligent       approach to their work       and play a vital role in the delivery of the Biennial" and from a parent's       point of view R. Clark,       states that she will "definitely guide her children's engagement with art       differently as a result of       this workshop"; and agrees that our workshop enabled her children to       reflect more on what art       means to them and "helped them learn the importance of others' opinions".
