     Delivery       Users benefited from this research through two mechanisms: (a) the       participatory research method by means of which the report (Religious         Discrimination and Symbolism: A Philosophical Perspective) was first       generated; (b) the community-engagement activities devised to ensure the       research findings influenced users.
(a): The report was written in consultation with significant stakeholders       in local faith-based communities (such as the Hindu Cultural Organization,       the Liverpool Muslim Society, Education Islam, the North-West Zoroastrian       Community, Chaplains at local universities and Coventry Multi- Faith       Forum) together with other local and national religious practitioners (the       former Anglican Bishop of Rochester, the Roman-Catholic Archbishop of       Liverpool, a council member of the National Secular Society, a member of       the British Humanist Association and representatives from Christian       Concern, the Evangelical Alliance and the National Council of Hindu       Temples), as well as legal practitioners (such as leading religious-rights       barrister Mark Hill QC) and key policy makers (including Charles Clarke,       the former Home Secretary, and employees from the Equality and Human       Rights Commission).
It was then reviewed by leading policy makers,       including several members of Parliament, pressure groups, and legal       counsel involved in some of the key cases (Eweida v British Airways       and Chaplin v Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital), and revised in the       light of comments received.
(b): The findings of the report were disseminated through interviews       given by Hill to local radio stations, a public debate in Manchester and       the Philosophy           in the City public blog.
Whistler and Hill also held meetings       with key participants in the high-profile Eweida, Chaplin,       McFarlane, and Ladele cases to further the reach of the       report.
These participants included Paul Diamond (representing Chaplin and       McFarlane), representatives from the Christian Legal Centre, and the       applicants, Shirley Chaplin and Gary McFarlane.
Impact on Public Discourse: Participatory Research       The monograph, The Right to Wear Religious Symbols, is itself       evidence of the involvement and investment of users in the construction of       the research findings.
In accordance with the participatory-research       methodology devised in Whistler and Hill's research, interactive       discussion of the core research question and the report's contents       provided a means not only to engage non- academic users in discussion, but       also to promote philosophical skills, such as analysis.
This model is       currently being redeployed and expanded in the Philosophy and         Religious Practices research network.
The impact of such active research participation, as well as of the       research findings themselves, on public discourse by enriching both users'       awareness of the concepts specifically at issue in legal cases concerning       religious discrimination, and their religious literacy more generally, is       attested by an end-of-project questionnaire (completed in November 2012).
100% stated that participation had improved their understanding of recent       legal debates; 100%, that it had improved their understanding of public       discussions surrounding religious discrimination; and 100%, that their       understanding of the role of symbolism in faith communities had been       improved.
Participants spoke of gaining "a much better knowledge of the       law and the practices of various faiths", of gaining "a greater depth of       understanding of the reasons for different religious practices in the UK"       and "better insight into the reasoning of the courts".
For many users,       this change in awareness also had transformative significance: 63%       maintained that participation in the research project had "changed the way       they thought" about issues surrounding religious discrimination.
Impact on Civil Life: Practice and Policy       After engaging with the disseminated findings, many new users recorded       changes in their religious literacy in connection with the project's       research findings, e.g.
its identification of a `practical turn' in recent       European case rulings and conceptual analysis of that turn.
88% of those       responding to the end-of-project questionnaire found that the project had       significantly "made a difference to their understanding" of debates       surrounding religious discrimination.
This figure includes representatives from all the beneficiaries of the       project: religious practitioners, legal practitioners, and policy makers.
Of the religious practitioners, Michael Nazir-Ali, the former Bishop of       Rochester, spoke of the report as a resource to "be widely used to promote       religious literacy in our common life" and furthermore hoped that it would       be "available to the employers, the employment tribunals and the courts"       making decisions on the protection of religious symbols.
Representatives       of a leading organisation for the raising of awareness of Islam in the UK,       Education Islam, also said that the report had been extremely       helpful for their future work.
Of the legal practitioners, Mark Hill QC, a       leading barrister at Francis Taylor Buildings Chambers, spoke of being       "delighted" at the legal significance of the report, which, he added,       would be "a matter of great interest" to lawyers in the UK.
And from the       policy makers involved in the project, Charles Clarke, the former Home       Secretary and Secretary of State for Education, described the report as       "extremely valuable" for rethinking policy in this area, and David Perfect       of the Equality and Human Rights Commission called the report "very       useful" for two policy projects on religion or belief being undertaken by       the EHRC in 2013.
(All of these testimonials were collated in       Summer/Autumn 2012.)
Only three months after the project finished, already a quarter of those       completing the end-of- project questionnaire claimed that they had put         the findings into practice outside the project.
That is, the       project, having accomplished its aim to raise awareness, and offer new       understanding, of key concepts underlying the debate around religious       discrimination, also led to changes in practice in civil life on the basis       of its findings.
One significant example of such a change in practice took place at       Network Rail's Professional Equalities Training for Workforce-Development       Specialists in York in July 2012.
A presenter at this meeting, who was       also a religious-practitioner participant in the Religious Symbolism         and Discrimination project, made substantial use of the findings of       the project in both the oral presentation that he gave on religious       symbolism in the workplace and also in printed material that he produced       for the team members.
His presentation on this component of equalities       training was significantly altered through engaging with the research, and       he was subsequently asked to join the Inter-Faith Network at Network Rail.
