     Matthew Fairclough has brought unique skills and experience garnered       through his own       compositional research to his work with Joby Burgess, and with his other       collaborators.
Pieces 3 &amp; 5 (above) were composed for Powerplant, supported by FACT       (&#163;10k) through its       Institute for Technical Exhibition Management (ITEM), and funded by the       Arts Council England       (ACE) and NESTA.
Powerplant is a multimedia performance trio featuring       Joby Burgess       (percussion/electronics), Matthew Fairclough (sound design/electronics)       and Kathy Hinde (visuals).
The ITEM-funded research involved the development of a touring and       performance system, and       was dependent on Fairclough's practice-based research in composing and       developing       performance methods for percussion and electronics.
The research has       benefited Burgess' career       in the following ways:     a) Initially, the research involved designing and developing a new system       centred on the       Xylosynth linked to a laptop computer, facilitating live sampling, looping       and sound       processing.
The system enabled Burgess to tour without the need for a       dedicated and       expensive sound engineer.
As a result, Burgess has secured more solo       concert       opportunities, including tours in America and the UK.
b) Fairclough trained Burgess to use this system, introducing him to       skills that enhanced his       profile as a unique and innovative performer with a new and distinctive       repertoire.
c) The success of the Powerplant collaboration led to awards in excess of       &#163;10K from the ACE       and the Performing Rights Society (PRS) Foundation, providing funds for       touring,       marketing, recording and the commissioning of new works.
The ACE and PRS grants enabled Powerplant to commission other composers,       further broadening       the repertoire for Burgess.
For example, composer Graham Fitkin worked       with Powerplant in the       University of Liverpool (UoL) recording studios, where new looping and       sampling techniques were       demonstrated using Fairclough's Audiotechonics III.
Consequently,       Fitkin composed Chain of         Command, which was recorded on CD (SIGCD143) and featured in many UK       and international       performances, making direct use of Fairclough's system.
Other subsequent       commissions have       utilised the Powerplant system including Gabriel Prokofiev's Import       Export, which has been       recorded on CD (NONCLSS007) and performed many times, both nationally and       internationally.
Additionally, Powerplant has benefited the career of video artist Kathy         Hinde.
Hinde has created       visuals for Fairclough's compositions since 2002, as well as live video       projections for Powerplant's       repertoire.
The collaboration on Fairclough's compositions has helped to       raise Hinde's public       profile as an artist and provide her with financial income.
The Powerplant       releases are hybrid CDs       that include additional video content, which has raised Hinde's profile       even further.
Viewing figures       for Powerplant videos on Youtube have exceeded 200,000.
Throughout their       collaboration on       Fairclough's compositions, Fairclough has been able to share his research       methods and practice       with Hinde, and in her written accompanying statement (Section 5 below)       Hinde describes how this       has enhanced her knowledge, skills and creative output.
In 2008, following       preparatory work at the       University of Liverpool (UoL) recording studios, Fairclough and Hinde       performed as a duo at FACT       and Bath International Music Festival, and Hinde created live video       projections for Fairclough's       own performance in which he used his live electronics system.
Powerplant's performances have had a positive cultural and inspirational       impact on audiences.
For       example, Devonshire A-level student Jessica Clarke contacted Fairclough       after attending a       Powerplant concert.
Impressed by the music and performance, she purchased       a Xylosynth but       experienced difficulties trying to achieve the kind of effects and style       of playing that Powerplant had       demonstrated.
Consequently, Clarke visited the UoL studios and received       training from Fairclough       on the use of her computer system and Xylosynth.
Notably, based on his       previous research,       Fairclough was able to create a software patch that solved a problem in       Clarke's performance set-       up.
Further impact has been achieved in the secondary education sector.
Financial support from the       University of Liverpool's Research Development Fund facilitated a series       of 10 workshops at       schools and Arts Centres during 2012/2013, reaching over 400 school       children studying music.
Fairclough and Burgess demonstrated Fairclough's compositions and       performance system, giving       the pupils an insight into performance practice and New Music repertoire       with electronics.
There       was much positive feedback from the workshops including statements such as       "The students       haven't stopped talking about the event.
For younger students who       attended, they have become       more brave and creative in their composition work, this is only less than       a week after the       performance!"
(Music Teacher at St Lawrence School, Bradford Upon-Avon       19.6.2013).
In addition to this, Powerplant's recordings, concerts and workshops have       enabled public       audiences locally, nationally and internationally to access and engage       with Contemporary Art       Music featuring percussion and live electronics.
Fairclough's compositions       have added to this       sparse repertoire, a repertoire that was previously rarely encountered       outside of a Higher       Education setting.
Three of Fairclough's compositions are recorded on two       CD releases and have       been performed in international concerts.
One of these compositions, Audiotectonics         III, was       selected for a special New Year's Day edition of Radio 4's `Late Junction'       in 2008, with subsequent       broadcasts in Ireland and Australia.
Furthermore, Audiotectonics III,       Carbon Copy and The Boom         and the Bap are all available for download via commercial websites,       including iTunes, and all have       received positive reviews.
Finally, the manufacturer Wernick Instruments has benefited from the       Xylosynth being used in the       unexpected context of Contemporary Art Music concerts and public       workshops, which has led to       an increase in sales, such as the purchase by Jessica Clarke (above).
Furthermore, early on in the       Powerplant collaboration, feedback from Fairclough and Burgess enabled       Wernick Instruments to       modify the internal software of subsequent models, improving the       compatibility with computer       music software in live performance.
