     The policy-relevant impact indicators developed by the SCRG have been       used to support decision-making       in the European Commission Directorate General of Research (DG Research),       the UK's       National Endowment for Science Technology and the Arts (Nesta), the BBC       World Service Trust       (BBC WST), the UK's Joint Information Systems Committee (Jisc) and the       United Nations       Millennium Development Campaign (UNMC), amongst others.
As part of the       impact of the       research, former PhD student Brian Cugelman also used his PhD knowledge to       set up a       cybermetrics consultancy organisation in Canada (alterspark.com).
In almost all cases the evidence below is for supplying consultancy for       decision-making rather than       direct evidence of decisions being changed on the basis of the indicators.
This is because such       decisions are typically conducted by committees in closed sessions on the       basis of a variety of       types of evidence.
Policy-making (international development): The United Nations       commissioned two reports in 2009       into the online impact of their Millennium Campaign from LeitMotiv and the       SCRG, with the SCRG       employing its web-based indicators.
The group also evaluated the United       Nations Development       Programme (UNDP) knowledge products in 2012.
The first consultancy       supported the decision-       making process to assess the results of the UNMC, a UN Development       Programme initiative       started in 2002 in order to develop an improved successor.
These were two       specialist consultancy       contributions to a vital decision making process that not only directed       $9million per year but also       had a wide influence (e.g., 173 million people participated in the       Millennium Campaign "Stand up       against Poverty" event in 2009) and in addition tackled a critical issue       for humanity: poverty.
Evidence: Two Millennium Campaign reports by LeitMotiv/SCRG on the       UNDP website; One       UNDP report.
[refs 1-3]     Policy-making (international development): Oxfam commissioned an       impact report from former       Wolverhampton researcher Cugelman using skills developed as a PhD student       in the SCRG.
This       evaluation supported attempts by Oxfam, a large and influential       organisation, to have a positive       impact on the climate change debate: a critical issue for humanity.
Evidence:       Quote from Oxfam.
[refs 4, 5]     Policy-making (evaluating European policies for directing knowledge):       The European Commission       Directorate General of Research commissioned a study (Rindicate 2008-9) of       five new scientific       areas to help identify promising areas for future funding.
In addition,       the Directorate General of       Research awarded the More 2 project and the Framework Contract on Research       Evaluation and       Research policy Analysis (Lot 2) to a consortium including the SCRG.
Evidence:       The funding of the       project following the previous similar projects by the same source (RESCAR       2006-2007, NetReAct       2005-2006) is evidence of the Directorate General Research belief in the       validity of our approach,       although specific policy impacts are not known.
The impact of all of these       consultancies is that the       European Commission is better able to evaluate emerging scientific fields       and help direct the billion       euro EU research funding budget, for effective EU knowledge development.
[refs 6, 7]     Public services (promoting innovation in the UK): The       government-funded independent charity       Nesta commissioned twice-yearly reports on the impact of their       publications from March 2008 to       September 2011.
Nesta produces about 20 publications each year that are       designed to promote       innovation in the UK.
These are distributed free online and in printed       format.
Nesta used to track       the influence of these publications by counting mentions in the media of       them but then asked the       SCRG to use its indicators to estimate the online impact of its       publications and the impact of its       web site.
The advantage of web indicators is that they give wider evidence       of influence than just       press coverage.
The results were used by Nesta to help monitor the       influence of their reports to       help decide which types of reports are best to produce in the future.
For       example, one type of       report was found to always have little impact and its production was       stopped, saving Nesta's       resources.
The ultimate impact of this was the improved ability for Nesta       to carry out its mission of       promoting innovation in the UK, which can potentially impact economic       prosperity, civil society and       cultural life in the UK.
Evidence: Nesta commissioned 8 reports,       indicating that they had enough       value for repeat commissioning.
[ref 8]     Public services (supporting the UK academic infrastructure): Jisc       requires its funded digitisation       projects to self-evaluate using the toolkit developed by Oxford University       that includes web       indicators and tools (the Webometric Analyst software) developed by the       SCRG (the Toolkit for the       Impact of Digitised Scholarly Resources, TIDSR, developed in 2009).
As a       result, Jisc has gained       more control over the digitisation projects that it funds.
Evidence:       the TIDSR toolkit is still       compulsory for funded projects, testifying to JISC's belief in its value       (see reference) [refs 9, 10]     Public services: The BBC World Service Trust commissioned web       impact analyses to demonstrate       the impact of its Persian news initiative online in Iran in 2009 for a       report into its impact.
Evidence:       a paper first authored by a BBC WST manager describing the results (see       references) [ref 11]     Policy-making (evaluating Belgian policies for directing knowledge):       A Belgian government-commissioned       assessment of its music research included a comparative web impact       analysis of       Belgian music researchers with other leading academic music centres around       the world, conducted       by the SCRG.
Idea Consult, Belgium authored the report.
Evidence:       [ref 12]
