     The development, application and validation of the Autar DVT scale       represents the watershed moment in VTE management.
The scale has shifted       VTE management from reactive, resource-exhaustive treatment to a       cost-effective, proactive, prevention approach, a position endorsed by the       recently revised VTE guidelines.
Autar was actively involved in the development of the initial NICE VTE       guidelines in 2007 and is acknowledged for his contribution in the revised       NICE VTE guidelines in 2010.
The Autar scale is also cited in the Agency       for Healthcare Research and Quality guidelines in the US.
Nationally, the publication of the first NICE VTE guidance in 2007 led to       an announcement (by the Chief Medical Officer for England &amp; Wales) in       2007 that all NHS trusts must have a VTE risk assessment strategy and       venous thromboprophylaxis in place.
Consequently, the first national       mandatory VTE risk assessment (based on the Autar DVT risk assessment       scale) was published in September 2008 (DH, VTE risk assessment, 2008).
Autar's work was explicitly acknowledged by Southampton University       Hospitals NHS trust (2011) in setting up their Anti Embolism Stockings and       DVT thromboprophylaxis protocols in surgical patients.
(Southampton       University Hospitals NHS Trust, 2011).
The Southampton NHS trust VTE       thromboprophylaxis protocol was granted national exemplar status for its       processes to reduce VTE risk, showing an audited improvement in risk       assessment documentation and significant increase in the prescription of       both mechanical and pharmacological prophylaxis (Vaughan, Shaw and Cannon,       2011).
Manual audits for the year 2010-11 have shown steady improvement on       correct prophylaxis with an average of 88% receiving appropriate       chemoprophylaxis and 85% appropriate mechanical prophylaxis over the final       quarter.
(Southampton NHS trust quality account, 2010).
The fifth Annual       Audit of Acute NHS Trusts VTE policies commissioned by the All Party       Parliamentary Thrombosis Group reported that 79-84% of trusts surveyed are       following the Southampton model (House of Commons, 2011).
This research has had far reaching impact in clinical practice.
Internationally, practitioners Robinson, 2009 (New Zealand); Sareeso &amp;       Utriyaprasit, 2011 (Thailand); and Ongen et al., 2011 (Turkey) claim that       a systematic and objective risk assessment of patients has had (or could       have) the desirable outcome of increasing uptake of thromboprophylaxis,       ranging from 50-70% and reducing incidence of VTE in equal measure.
Although initially validated in orthopaedic, medical and surgical areas,       the scale is being used in other areas of clinical practice.
For example,       following a recommendation by the Agency for Healthcare Research and       Quality (ARHQ) to the US Department of Health and Human Services, the       scale is being applied as a quality indicator for the management and       prevention of VTE in the intensive care unit (Maynard &amp; Stein (Medical       Directors) 2008).
ARHQ (2008) claimed that without such a systematic       approach over one year, a 300-bed hospital would expect roughly 150 cases       of hospital-acquired VTE.
Approximately 50-75 of those would be       potentially preventable, and approximately five of those patients would       die.
Each DVT would represent an incremental inpatient cost of $10,000,       while each pulmonary embolism would be approximately $20,000 in additional       cost (Maynard, 2008; Maynard, 2009).
In Texas, USA, the San Antonio       Association of Operating Room Nurses (2009) used the Autar DVT scale in       its original form as a toolkit in the prevention of VTE in gerontology.
In Vienna, Austria, where there was no formal way of addressing the VTE       problem, the Autar DVT scale was independently evaluated; its high       specificity and sensitivity led to the Autar DVT scale being translated       into German (Muller, 2008) and the scale has been implemented at the       Kaiserin-Elisabeth Hospital, Huglgasse.
In Singapore, the scale was used       by the Ministry of Health to develop their venous thromboembolism       guidelines in 2008.
In Bangkok and Songkhla (Thailand) the scale was shown       to have good outcomes in terms of early detection, improving uptake of       prophylaxis and reducing the risk and incidence of VTE (Sareeso &amp;       Utriyaprasit, 2011; Songwathana &amp; Promlek, 2011).
At Ain Shams       University, Egypt, the scale was rigorously validated by a team of       research fellows, leading to the implementation of the scale at the Ain       Shams University Specialised Hospital in Cairo (Desouky et al., 2010).
The       Autar DVT risk assessment has also been translated into Japanese and       Chinese to enable wider application.
The scale remains enduringly influential, (Ongen et al., 2011).
Its       reproducibility and ease of practical application make it an attractive       tool to clinicians (Muller, 2008; Desouky et al., 2010) - a hard copy       dossier of ca.
100 electronic enquires from hospital practitioners       worldwide, is available for scrutiny to further corroborate the claims of       impact if required.
