     The research led by Prof Tanner has raised the profile of SSIs, and       changed the way in which many hospitals collect SSI data across the UK,       leading to reduced SSIs and improved quality of life for thousands of       surgical patients.
Prof Tanner's 2008 SSI surveillance study at the University Hospitals of       Leicester (UHL) NHS Acute Trust identified an SSI rate of 27% for       colorectal patients with an average additional cost per patient of       &#163;10,400.
Treating colorectal SSIs cost the UHL trust and the local primary       care trust &#163;900,000 in just one year.
This information led the UHL trust       to finance and implement a trust wide surveillance programme with six       staff using the surveillance method Prof Tanner set up.
This programme,       which included 15,000 patients annually, was temporarily suspended in 2012       (staff shortages), but the trust has stated its commitment to resume       surveillance in its 2013 strategy.
Prof Tanner then led the development and implementation of a care bundle       of interventions at UHL to reduce SSIs (including the recommendations from       the Cochrane reviews) which saw colorectal SSI rates fall from 27% in 2008       to 18% in 2010, a cost saving of around &#163;350,000 for just one surgical       specialty in one year.
Part of the surveillance programme set up by Prof       Tanner included a rapid feedback system to clinical staff of SSI rates and       compliance with interventions to reduce SSIs.
Through this feedback       system, compliance with antibiotic prophylaxis for surgical patients       increased from 60% to 95%.
The SSI surveillance data from Prof Tanner's       study led the local primary care trust to include SSI targets in the       Commissioning Quality Initiatives (CQUIN) agreement in 2009 and these have       been included each year since.
This was the first trust in England to       include SSIs as a CQUIN target (agreements between trusts and       commissioners to improve clinical outcomes &#8212; financial penalties are       associated with unmet targets).
Prof Tanner disseminated the findings from this surveillance study       widely, having spoken at around 60 conferences, study days or master       classes since January 2008 in over 10 countries including a lecture tour       in Japan.
Interest in this topic is high &#8212; Prof Tanner was an invited       speaker at more than 50 of these events.
Ten trusts across England have       invited Prof Tanner to discuss SSI surveillance with them and staff from       four trusts across England have visited UHL to observe the surveillance       programme prior to implementing post discharge surveillance in their own       trusts.
This engagement with clinicians has led to substantial changes in SSI       surveillance practice in England.
In 2008, no hospitals in England carried       out active post discharge surveillance and it was not included in the       national SSI surveillance programme.
However, the national surveillance       survey led by Prof Tanner in 2012 showed that 73/106 trusts in England do       now undertake post discharge surveillance.
The survey also showed that 23       trusts had followed UHL's pioneering decision to include SSIs as a CQUIN       target.
Prof Tanner's 2012 SSI surveillance survey was critical of the national       surveillance programme (showing the inappropriateness of using its       incomplete data for benchmarking trusts) and generated considerable       interest from clinicians and the media.
Its publication in January 2013       was accompanied by a press release and became a news item on local and       national media as well as the British Medical Journal and the Health       Service Journal.
The news item in the BMJ online garnered several written       responses including one from the Health Protection Agency and has had 900       hits and 400 downloads to date.
The Journal of Hospital Infection also       published several letters in response to Tanner's article.
A written       response from Tanner in the Journal of Hospital Infection called upon the       Health Protection Agency to engage and consult with clinicians to improve       the current national surveillance programme.
In July 2013, the Health       Protection Agency disseminated a survey to all trusts in England to       `capture their views for future SSI surveillance'.
For the first time in       July 2013, SSI rates published by the Health Protection Agency were       explicitly acknowledged as comprising only inpatients and readmissions and       thus were not complete.
As well as raising the profile of SSIs, Prof Tanner has led several       studies, including three Cochrane reviews of effectiveness, to reduce       SSIs.
These have been cited in numerous guidelines worldwide.
For example:     The recommendation from Prof Tanner's Cochrane review of pre-operative       hair removal that clippers should be used instead of razors is included       in:            guidelines published by the Joint Commission Accreditation Healthcare         Organisations (USA) (first published in 2007 and repeated annually).
This guideline will apply to an estimated 20 million patients across the         USA annually.
The recommendation is also one of six interventions which form a         package of care sponsored by the Centres for Medicare and Medicaid in         collaboration with the American Hospitals Association, Centres for         Disease Control, Institute for Healthcare Improvement and the Joint         Commission (2006-2010).
This recommendation is also stated in the UK's NICE guidelines (2008)         and the Department of Health's High Impact Intervention (2011).
All         hospitals in England must by law comply with High Impact Interventions.
This will apply to four million surgical operations in each year.
This review is also cited in the 2011 national guidelines for surgical         practice in Australia.
The recommendation from Prof Tanner's review on surgical hand hygiene       stating the optimum duration of the surgical scrub is cited in the World       Health Organisation's hand hygiene guidelines published in 2009, which are       utilised in over one hundred countries worldwide.
The recommendation for the routine use of double gloving from Prof       Tanner's review of surgical gloving is cited in guidelines published by:            NICE (2008) &#8212; NICE guidelines are applicable to all NHS and         independent trusts in the UK       the Association for Perioperative Practice (2011)       the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (2010)       the American Association for Surgical Technologists (2008)          The Health Protection Agency's annual report on SSIs in England (Dec       2012) stated many hospitals exhibited a decreasing trend in SSIs,       `undoubtedly' caused by the implementation of the NICE SSI guidelines and       DH High Impact Interventions.
The NICE SSI guidelines and the DH High       Impact Interventions cite recommendations from Prof Tanner's Cochrane       reviews of pre-operative hair removal and surgical gloving.
